<h2>Preface</h2>

<p>I can say with all sincerity, nay with all
solemn responsibility, that this detective
mystery deceived me. And as I have been
looking out for a long time for a detective mystery
that should be at least deceptive, whatever its
other merits or demerits in being detective, I
very willingly write a word to serve as a preface
to it, though such books ought not to need such
prefaces. The detective story is in this way a
paradox (if I may use a word that has very
painful memories for me) because the true reader and
critic not only desires to be gulled, but even
desires to be gullible. I wish when reading such a
story to become as simple as Dr. Watson; to be
in the happy, cheerful, childlike, radiant
condition of Dr. Watson and not in the much more
dark and disillusioned and satiated and sceptical
condition of Sherlock Holmes. I generally am in
that childlike condition. But in every case it is
my ardent and aspiring ambition to be stupider
than the man who wrote the story. And in the
case of this story I actually succeeded.</p>

<p>This desire to be deceived is really peculiar to
detective romance. It is in another sense that we
say the same thing of other types of romance. It
is sometimes said that when we go to the theatre
we pay to be deceived. But we are not really
deceived; we do not think that the dramatist
intends something that he does not intend; we do
not think the actor is doing something that he is
not doing. We only forget, or half forget, for a
moment, in the continuity and consistency of
certain events, the fact that they come from a
dramatist and an actor. But if we happen to
remember it, we do not remember it with surprise.
We are not astonished to discover that there is an
actor on the stage, as we are (or ought to be)
astonished to discover that there is a corpse in
the summer-house. We do not feel a momentary
incredulity when we are told that the play was
written by a playwright, as we do feel (or ought
to feel) when we are told that the crime was
committed by a curate. We watch a great actor
performing Hamlet so well that (if we have luck)
we lose for an instant the sense that he is a
great actor; we feel for the moment that he is
young Hamlet trying to avenge the death of old
Hamlet upon Claudius. But we do not, either
in forgetting or remembering, feel any shock of
fact or the change of fact. We do not feel as
we should feel if the play took a new and sudden
turn, and we found that Hamlet had killed his
own father and that his uncle was a perfectly
blameless character. That would be the
Detective Drama of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, and
now that so many peculiar experiments are being
tried with that tragedy, I respectfully suggest it
to the managers of the London Theatres.</p>

<p>If it is the first rule of the writer of mystery
stories to conceal the secret from the reader, it
is the first duty of the critic to conceal it from
the public. I will therefore put my hand upon
my mouth; and tortures shall not reveal the
precise point in this story at which a person whom
I had really regarded as figuring in one
legitimate capacity suddenly began to figure in
another, which was far from legitimate. I must not
breathe a word about what the writer of this
dramatic mystery does. I will confine myself
strictly to saying what he does not do. And
merely out of the things which he does not do, I
could construct an enthusiastic eulogy. On the
firm foundation of the things he does not do, I
could erect an eternal tower of brass. For the
things he does not do are the things being done
everywhere to-day, to the destruction of true
detective fiction and the loss of this legitimate and
delightful form of art. He does not introduce
into the story a vast but invisible secret society
with branches in every part of the world, with
ruffians who can be brought in to do anything or
underground cellars that can be used to hide
anybody. He does not mar the pure and lovely
outlines of a classical murder or burglary by
wreathing it round and round with the dirty and
dingy red tape of international diplomacy; he
does not lower our lofty ideals of crime to the
level of foreign politics. He does not introduce
suddenly at the end somebody’s brother from
New Zealand, who is exactly like him. He does
not trace the crime hurriedly in the last page or
two to some totally insignificant character, whom
we never suspected because we never
remembered. He does not get over the difficulty of
choosing between the hero and the villain by
falling back on the hero’s cabman or the villain’s
valet. He does not introduce a professional
criminal to take the blame of a private crime; a
thoroughly unsportsmanlike course of action and
another proof of how professionalism is ruining
our national sense of sport. He does not
introduce about six people in succession to do little
bits of the same small murder; one man to bring
the dagger and another to point it and another
to stick it in properly. He does not say it was
all a mistake, and that nobody ever meant to
murder anybody at all, to the serious
disappointment of all humane and sympathetic readers.
He does not make the general mistake of
thinking that the more complicated the story is the
better. His story is complicated enough, and on
many points open to criticism; but the secret of
it is found in the centre; and that is the central
matter in any work of art.</p>

<p class="endsignature">G. K. Chesterton.</p>
<p class="dateline"><i>March</i>, 1926.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch01">

<h2>Chapter I. <br/> The Crime</h2>

<p>The telephone bell rang on the table of
Superintendent Sinclair at Scotland Yard.
He was a busy man, and had given orders that
he was not to be disturbed except on matters
important.</p>

<p>Putting down a paper he had been reading, he
picked up the receiver. A woman’s voice spoke.</p>

<p>“Is that Scotland Yard?”</p>

<p>“Yes, yes,” he said impatiently,
“Superintendent Sinclair speaking, what is it?”</p>

<p>“Listen carefully,” said the voice. “The Home
Secretary has been murdered at his own house, it
would be as well if you would come at once.
Have you got that? Just repeat.”</p>

<p>Even Sinclair, the coolest head in the service,
was staggered for a moment. There was not a
trace of hurry or emotion in the voice. It might
have been inviting him to tea. Before he could
collect himself, the voice began again.</p>

<p>“I will repeat,” and the same impassive
message came through with the concluding words,
“Have you got that?”</p>

<p>Sinclair pulled himself together.</p>

<p>“Who is speaking?” he said. He heard a laugh
and then the voice⸺</p>

<p>“Oh, no one in particular, just the murderer,”
and then silence.</p>

<p>He rang his bell, and his assistant, or
‘familiar’ as he was termed, Lewis, entered.</p>

<p>“Someone is playing a joke of sorts on us.
Just find out who called up,” he said abruptly,
and went on reading. The thing was so absurd,
but something was wrong, and someone would
have to answer for this. In a minute Lewis
returned.</p>

<p>“They don’t seem to know downstairs, sir,
there is a new operator at the exchange, and it
seems that someone said she was a personal
friend of yours, and must speak at once to you.”</p>

<p>“Oh, of course, the same old game. I suppose
they think it’s funny,” and he turned savagely to
his work.</p>

<p>“By the way, Lewis, just find out where the
Home Secretary is,” he added.</p>

<p>About ten minutes had passed, when a knock
came at the door, and a clerk ushered in Mr.
Collins.</p>

<p>Sylvester Collins was not a Sherlock Holmes
or anything like it, but after a successful career
at the Bar, at a time when all his many friends
had expected him to ‘take silk,’ he had suddenly
thrown up his whole career, and started as an
Inquiry Agent and Amateur Detective, though
he hated the expression, and always claimed that
he was merely trying to use his experience at the
Bar in a practical way.</p>

<p>However, he had been phenomenally
successful, perhaps through luck, perhaps through a
keen, trained brain and good common sense.</p>

<p>If his friends wanted to upset him, they would
call him Sherlock Holmes, which was like a red
rag to a bull to him.</p>

<p>He worked excellently with the official force,
and had been “briefed” by them on many
occasions, with the happiest results to all except the
criminals who had been run to earth.</p>

<p>A clean-cut face with a large nose, and a firm
mouth, were his chief characteristics. Soft brown
eyes, and curly hair almost black, gave his face a
curiously paradoxical expression.</p>

<p>When not engaged professionally, he was a
keen sportsman, and enjoyed life to the full.</p>

<p>He was entirely devoid of ‘side’ or ‘swank.’</p>

<p>Sinclair was a very different type. He was
more like the Scotland Yard officer of real life
than of fiction. After successful work in India,
he had applied for and obtained his post. He
had just a detective’s training and education. He
made no pretensions to be other than a trained
official with no particular brilliance, and he was
glad to have the help of his friend, who had brains
and not his experience.</p>

<p>Collins always came to Sinclair without
ceremony.</p>

<p>He entered smoking a cigarette, and placed his
hat and stick on the table.</p>

<p>“Well,” he said. “What’s the trouble now?”</p>

<p>Sinclair looked up in some surprise.</p>

<p>“What do you mean?”</p>

<p>“You sent for me?”</p>

<p>“I’m sure I didn’t,” said the other.</p>

<p>“But someone from here called me up on the
’phone about⸺” he looked at his watch—“about
ten minutes ago, and said you wanted to
speak to me.”</p>

<p>“Someone from here. Who was it?”</p>

<p>“I am sure I don’t know. It sounded like a
woman.”</p>

<p>“What did she say?” said the Superintendent
turning in his chair.</p>

<p>“Nothing more than that. Simply asked if I
were speaking, and said ‘Superintendent Sinclair
wants to speak to you at once if you can come,’
and rang off.”</p>

<p>“Well, I’m damned,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“You may be for all I know, but I was just off
to tennis,” and he glanced at his flannels. “I
suppose someone has been playing the fool. I’ll
get off.”</p>

<p>“Stop. If they have, they have been trying to
fool me, too,” and he told of the message he had
received.</p>

<p>Collins listened with interest.</p>

<p>“What have you done?” he said.</p>

<p>“I asked Lewis to find out where the Home
Secretary was. I expect he has found him now.
The thing is absurd.”</p>

<p>Lewis came in.</p>

<p>“Well?” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“The Home Secretary is not in the House or at
the Home Office. They do not know where he is.”</p>

<p>“Call up his house,” said Sinclair, irritated.</p>

<p>“Better not,” said Collins. “If there’s nothing
in it we don’t want to look fools, and if there has
really been murder done the less known the
better. I’ll tell you what—I have my car outside.
Let’s run up to his house in Leveson Square.
You can make some excuse. You often want to
see him.”</p>

<p>The Superintendent made a face. “I’m not big
enough to go calling on the Home Secretary.”</p>

<p>“Never mind, fake up something. I’ll come
with you.”</p>

<p>“All right, I’ll bring two plain clothes officers
in case there is anything in it. We often have to
keep a special watch there, so that’ll be quite in
order.”</p>

<p>Collins laughed. “Thank goodness I am not
official. What a lot of red tape you people have.”</p>

<p>“Why, what would you have done, then?”</p>

<p>“Charged up and asked him if he were dead by
any chance.”</p>

<p>“Come along.”</p>

<p>Lewis had been listening to them.</p>

<p>“Come along, Lewis, and bring Smith,” said
Sinclair.</p>

<p>To his surprise Lewis was as white as chalk,
and his hand trembled.</p>

<p>“If you don’t mind, sir,” he said, “I would
much rather not come. I don’t feel very well.”
Collins gazed keenly at him for a moment.</p>

<p>“How long have you felt ill?” he said.</p>

<p>“Only just a few minutes ago, sir, I think it’s
the heat.”</p>

<p>“Let’s get someone else, then, only hurry
along, I want to get to my tennis,” said Collins
impatiently.</p>

<p>Sinclair was about to grumble, but a look
from Collins made him silent. “Go and get two
men then at once. Tell them to meet us at the
door.”</p>

<p>“What the devil was the matter with Lewis?”
said Sinclair in the car. “He is my right-hand
man.”</p>

<p>“Dunno,” said Collins who was driving, “wait
till we know what has happened.”</p>

<p>Every incident that transpired from that
moment was so stamped on the memory of the two
men that there was no mistake about the facts.</p>

<p>On arriving at the door of the Home
Secretary’s house, Sinclair stationed Smith at the
front entrance, with orders not to show himself,
but to watch.</p>

<p>The second man was disposed at the back,
where was a high wall, but no actual entrance.
The basement opened into an area in front.</p>

<p>The two men ascended the front steps and
Sinclair rang the bell. An aged housekeeper, Mrs.
Simmons, opened the door.</p>

<p>“Is the Home Secretary in?” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, he’s in his study,” she looked at the
men doubtfully, “he did not wish to be
disturbed.”</p>

<p>“When did you see him last?” said Collins,
looking at her keenly.</p>

<p>“Why, about half an hour back, sir,” said she
in surprise.</p>

<p>“What fools we have been,” said Sinclair,
“we’d better go.”</p>

<p>“Not at all. Now we are here we will see him.
We can ask him about Blake who is to be hanged
next Thursday. There’s a big petition you know
for a reprieve.”</p>

<p>“Very good, but it’s a fool’s errand.” He
turned to the housekeeper.</p>

<p>“Would you kindly take my card to Sir James,
and ask him if he could spare me a minute?”</p>

<p>When the woman had gone, Sinclair said, “I
shall get hell for this. He will ask me what it
has got to do with me, and why I did not use the
ordinary channels.”</p>

<p>“Leave it to me,” said the other with his easy
confidence. He generally got his own way in
most things.</p>

<p>After a brief interval Mrs. Simmons returned.</p>

<p>“I have knocked twice,” she said, “but there is
no answer. I expect he is asleep. I hardly like
to disturb him unless it is a very important
matter.”</p>

<p>The two men exchanged glances.</p>

<p>“I am afraid it is,” said Collins. “We had
better see. This is Superintendent Sinclair from
Scotland Yard.”</p>

<p>At the name the old woman turned pale.</p>

<p>“Scotland Yard?” she stammered. “I hope
nothing is wrong?”</p>

<p>“Why should anything be wrong,” said Collins.
“The Home Secretary often sees officials from
the Yard, doesn’t he?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said she; “but there have been some
queer things to-day here.”</p>

<p>“What things?” said Collins.</p>

<p>“Oh, come along, don’t start asking questions
now,” said Sinclair. The two men entered the
hall.</p>

<p>The housekeeper disappeared down the stairs,
but the others did not notice her departure at
the moment.</p>

<p>They made for the library door where the
housekeeper had knocked. Sinclair tried the
handle. The door was locked. He knocked
loudly, but there was no response.</p>

<p>“We shall have to break the door down,” said
he.</p>

<p>“Oh, that’s very clumsy,” said Collins, “and
makes such a noise.” Stooping down he
examined the lock.</p>

<p>“That’s an easy matter, the key is in the lock.”</p>

<p>He produced a fine pair of pliers, and deftly
gripping the end of the key, turned it without
difficulty.</p>

<p>“You would make a good burglar,” laughed the
superintendent. Collins opened the door and
glanced round.</p>

<p>The room was in semi-darkness, and after the
glare outside it was hard to see anything for a
moment. By the empty grate was a large arm-chair,
and seated in this was the familiar figure
of the Home Secretary, Sir James Watson. He
was huddled up in his chair, and his head was at
a curious angle to his body.</p>

<p>Sinclair was about to advance into the room.</p>

<p>“Stop,” said the other. “For Heaven’s sake
don’t go inside and leave footmarks. Whatever
is the matter, this requires a doctor. I will wait
here, you telephone for a doctor.”</p>

<p>He glanced round the room.</p>

<p>“There doesn’t appear to be one here. Ask the
housekeeper.”</p>

<p>Sinclair went to the head of the stairs and
called.</p>

<p>There was some delay, and he called again
angrily.</p>

<p>A muffled voice answered him.</p>

<p>“Where’s the telephone, quick?” he shouted.</p>

<p>A sound was heard on the stairs, and Mrs.
Simmons came up. She was crying.</p>

<p>“Stop that,” said Sinclair roughly. “Where is
the telephone?”</p>

<p>“There isn’t one in the house, sir,” she said.
“Sir James had it taken away. He was always
being rung up.”</p>

<p>Collins was getting impatient. “Send one of
your men for a doctor, then, the old woman is no
good. There are plenty of them round here.
Hurry, man, it may be life or death.”</p>

<p>Sinclair dashed down the steps, and called the
man on duty. He returned breathless.</p>

<p>Collins had dragged two large mats to the door
of the library, and was carefully spreading one
on the floor. The two men entered, and placed
the second mat beyond the first.</p>

<p>“On your knees,” he said in a whisper.</p>

<p>They approached the figure in the chair.</p>

<p>One glance was sufficient. Even in the semi-darkness
they could see an ugly mark on the side
of the head from which a very thin trickle of
blood was coming.</p>

<p>“A bullet hole,” said Sinclair, who was versed
in these matters. “He’s been shot.”</p>

<p>“Hum,” said Collins, “wait for the doctor.
Meanwhile I will have some light.” With the
utmost precautions he moved his rugs to the
window, and pulled up the blinds.</p>

<p>The room was beautifully furnished, for Sir
James was a man of taste and had the means to
gratify it.</p>

<p>The walls were covered with books to a height
of seven feet.</p>

<p>Above that one or two choice pictures were
hung.</p>

<p>The fireplace was a fine piece of carved oak.</p>

<p>As far as they could see, the room was empty.</p>

<p>The windows were hasped, and there was no
other entrance.</p>

<p>The library had originally been two rooms,
and ran the full depth of the house. It had been
adapted by Sir James, and was his favourite
room.</p>

<p>A fussy little doctor arrived, and was brought
into the room with the same precautions.</p>

<p>Sinclair introduced himself and his
companion.</p>

<p>The doctor made a very careful examination,
while the others waited.</p>

<p>“Dead,” he said. “I should think about half
an hour, possibly more. It is difficult to tell
exactly.” He looked up.</p>

<p>“Is it a case of murder or suicide?”</p>

<p>“At present we know no more than you do,”
said Sinclair. “We had only just come, and sent
for you at once.”</p>

<p>“Quite right, quite right,” said the little
doctor pompously.</p>

<p>“Meanwhile you will, of course, keep this
entirely to yourself,” said Collins.</p>

<p>“But isn’t this?” he glanced at the stricken
man. “Surely this is the Home Secretary.”</p>

<p>“Exactly,” said Collins dryly. “That is why
it is necessary for you to remain silent until you
are asked to speak. Superintendent Sinclair
represents Scotland Yard. You understand?”</p>

<p>The doctor bowed. He saw himself playing a
prominent part in a great drama, which would
bring him notoriety and clients.</p>

<p>“The body had better be moved for me to make
a more exhaustive examination,” said he.</p>

<p>“Would you please wait outside till we have
made our observations if you don’t mind, as the
fewer in here the better, but I think you had
better remain in the house, if you can manage it.”</p>

<p>“Certainly,” said the doctor, “I am at your
service.”</p>

<p>“Then perhaps you would tell the housekeeper
to stay where she is,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Now for your men,” said Collins, when the
doctor had gone out.</p>

<p>“We must tell them to see that no one leaves
the house.” They went first to the front door
and called Smith.</p>

<p>Collins was careful to keep the open library
door in sight all the time.</p>

<p>After giving him his orders, they had to get
in touch with the man at the back. There was
a small garden, bounded by a high wall, and
beyond that a lane. Seated on the wall was the
figure of the other man, keeping a good look-out.
Collins went to a back window and called him
softly.</p>

<p>“Seen anything?” he asked.</p>

<p>“No, sir, nothing doing here,” said the man
cheerfully.</p>

<p>It was refreshing in the midst of what looked
like a grim tragedy to find a cheery soul who
seemed to be enjoying himself.</p>

<p>He returned to Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Now for the room.”</p>

<p>The two had been used to work together, and
Sinclair knew exactly when to leave matters to
Collins and when to take charge himself.</p>

<p>As was usual in these cases, Collins thought
aloud, and the other checked his statements.</p>

<p>He approached the dead man, moving still on
the rugs.</p>

<p>“Clean bullet wound—no burning—fired from
a distance—probably while he slept—entered
right temple—bullet lodged in the brain—all
straight forward—both hands limp, and peaceful
expression—<i lang="la">ergo</i> unexpected attack and no
resistance—now, let’s see—eyes shut—confirms first
impression. Anything else about the body?”</p>

<p>Sinclair looked at it critically.</p>

<p>“No;” he said, “but from the way he lies the
shot must have come from the doorway, or
somewhere near that.”</p>

<p>“We are coming to that in a minute,” said the
other.</p>

<p>“Now let’s have a look round. Observation
only, no speculation. Table, with two glasses.”
He took one up and then the other.</p>

<p>“Just whisky and soda. There’s the decanter
and there’s the syphon.”</p>

<p>“Nothing very mysterious about that. But
who was the visitor?... Cigar ash, I cannot tell
five hundred kinds of ash,” said he with a smile,
“still, they both smoked.”</p>

<p>“Now for the floor—help me with the rugs.
Right—hullo.”</p>

<p>As they moved the second rug they disclosed
a revolver lying on the floor. Collins picked it
up.</p>

<p>“Service revolver—Webley—now obsolete⸺”
He broke the revolver carefully.</p>

<p>“Five full and one empty—seems obvious—too
obvious.” He was always disappointed if a
problem proved quite easy of solution.</p>

<p>“Well, we must wait for the bullet—I hope it
doesn’t fit⸺”</p>

<p>Sinclair laughed. “I don’t believe you care in
the least whether the murderer is punished or
not, as long as you have something interesting to
solve.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I must say I like something abstruse; but
never mind.</p>

<p>“Now for footprints. On this soft pile carpet
they ought to show, thanks to our precautions.”</p>

<p>He went down on his knees, and examined the
carpet carefully.</p>

<p>The other took a chair and watched.</p>

<p>After a long and keen search all over the room,
he rose to his feet.</p>

<p>“There are three sets of marks,” he said.</p>

<p>“Here are one lot walking up and down and
crossing frequently. Number two was sitting
down here, it is quite a different type of boot, or
rather shoe, I think, and here are the marks
which I rather fancy are my own when I stepped
to lay the rug.”</p>

<p>He removed his shoe and placed it on the mark.</p>

<p>“That’s right,” he said. “It shows how
careful one has to be. If you and I and the doctor
had all walked over the carpet we should have
obliterated the others....</p>

<p>“Now which of these is the dead man’s?”</p>

<p>Sinclair was hardened in criminal matters,
and without compunction removed one of the
dead man’s boots.</p>

<p>“Exactly,” said Collins, fitting it to a mark on
the floor. “That’s that. He was the one who
walked about the room. How does that fit in
with the idea of him being shot when asleep?”</p>

<p>“No theories yet,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Right you are. That’s the floor. Now the
windows. Firmly fastened. Anything curious
there?”</p>

<p>“Nothing that I see except we have to find how
the murderer escaped.”</p>

<p>“A hot day in summer, and all the windows
close fastened. Well, perhaps he did not want
the shot to be heard.”</p>

<p>“Are you suggesting suicide?”</p>

<p>“Why not? Oh, I see, you are thinking of the
telephone message. Still, we must not eliminate
the possibility at present.”</p>

<p>“Door locked on the inside, and no trace of the
second person.”</p>

<p>“Of course, the walls and floor will have to be
examined,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Of course, and the ceiling and chimney. Well,
that’s all here, and we had better get the doctor
and remove the body.”</p>

<p>“Wrap those glasses and decanter and syphon
carefully up for finger prints,” said Collins.</p>

<p>Sinclair turned scarlet.</p>

<p>“I am most awfully sorry. I ought to have
known better, but this thing upset me rather.
While you were grovelling on the floor I helped
myself to a little whisky—it was really
unpardonable.”</p>

<p>“I saw you,” said Collins coolly. “It would
cost you your place if it were known, but I shan’t
tell any tales.”</p>

<p>“Thanks,” said Sinclair simply. It was a
little weakness he had.</p>

<p>They took the body carefully into the
dining-room, and left it with the doctor.</p>

<p>“Now for the housekeeper,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Mrs. Simmons, will you come here, please?”</p>

<p>The woman came in very distressed, and seated
herself, at a word from Collins.</p>

<p>“Now, Mrs. Simmons,” he said in kind tones,
“Can you throw any light on this affair? Please
calm yourself and tell us all you know.”</p>

<p>After a prolonged examination, the following
facts were elicited, which are better put
together.</p>

<p>The Home Secretary was a widower. He had
one daughter, Mabel, who lived with him. She
had gone down to their country place in
Devonshire, from which he had come the day before,
and he intended to return the next day. The
servants had gone, leaving Mrs. Simmons to look
after Sir James.</p>

<p>He had been at his Office all the morning, returning
for lunch. He was a solitary man and
shunned company.</p>

<p>At about three o’clock a ring had come at the
door, and she had gone up to answer it. When
she got to the top of the stairs, she saw that Sir
James had already opened the door. A man came
in and went straight to the library. She could
not see anything of him, as Sir James was
between them. She thought nothing of it, as it was
probably an official from the Home Office. Sir
James locked the door, and the two were
together for about half an hour. She heard
nothing, as the kitchen was not under the library.</p>

<p>Then there was a ring from the library. She
was quite certain of that. She went up after a
moment, as she had been writing a letter. When
she got to the hall, Sir James was showing the
visitor out, and she did not see him. Sir James
stood on the steps and watched him go. As she
was not wanted she went down again.</p>

<p>A little later Sir James came out from the
library, and went across the road with a letter,
which he put into the pillar-box. She waited for
him, as she wished to ask about arrangements
for the evening.</p>

<p>When he came back he told her he should be
out to dinner, and that he was on no account to
be disturbed.</p>

<p>He had then gone in and locked the door. She
was certain of that—she had heard the key turn.
After that she had been busy in the dining-room,
and was quite certain that no one else had called.
She had heard nothing until the two men had
come. She had heard no sound of a shot.</p>

<p>She would certainly have heard one from where
she was.</p>

<p>“Why was she so agitated when the door was
opened?”</p>

<p>She was given to presentiments, and was
feeling afraid of something after the strange man
had called.</p>

<p>At the conclusion Collins asked her about the
household. Were there any relations who came?</p>

<p>“No, sir,” she said, “though Sir James used to
have regular house-parties at his country place.
He lived very quietly in London.”</p>

<p>“Has he ever shown any signs of being afraid
of an attack, or anything of that sort?”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, there have been times when he
seemed uneasy. He has asked whether there was
anybody hanging round the house, and he always
kept a loaded revolver in his room.”</p>

<p>“Oh, did he? And where is it now?”</p>

<p>The housekeeper led them into the library, now
guarded by a plain-clothes man. She opened a
drawer in the writing table. Within lay a small
silver-plated revolver, fully loaded.</p>

<p>“You say that Sir James had one child, a
daughter?” said Collins.</p>

<p>Mrs. Simmons hesitated. “Well, sir, I have
been with the family twenty years. There was
another, a son, but he was a wrong ’un, and went
abroad many years ago, and, as far as I know,
the family have heard nothing since.”</p>

<p>“But hasn’t Sir James kept in touch with
him?”</p>

<p>“Of course, I do not know all that has
happened, but I do know that Sir James used to
make an allowance to him; but the time came
when the firm of lawyers said they had lost all
trace of him, and the money was stopped.”</p>

<p>“Where was he at that time—I mean in what
country?”</p>

<p>“I don’t properly know, but it was in one of
those South American States.”</p>

<p>“And that is all you can tell us,” said Collins,
fixing the housekeeper with a sharp look.</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, as far as I can remember, but of
course I am all of a fluster. Something more may
occur to me; but, oh, sir, what shall I do, I
cannot stay in this dreadful house?”</p>

<p>“There is no need for you to do so, is there,
Sinclair?” said Collins.</p>

<p>The other tugged at his moustache. “I don’t
know. Where are you going?”</p>

<p>“I want to go to my sister’s house at Forest
Gate, if I may, I am so upset with all this.”</p>

<p>Collins drew Sinclair aside.</p>

<p>“Let her go,” he said, “and have her watched.
It may be useful.”</p>

<p>“Very good,” said he. To Mrs. Simmons, he
said, “You can go, but you must give us your
address, you will be wanted as a witness at the
inquest. Don’t talk about the affair at all. Do
you understand?”</p>

<p>“Thank you, sir, I will go and pack,” said she
gratefully.</p>

<p>Collins watched her go.</p>

<p>“What do you make of her?” he said.</p>

<p>“She seemed quite straightforward; I think
she’s told us the truth.”</p>

<p>Collins gave a laugh. “Yes,” he said. “The
truth, but not the whole truth. She’s a clever old
woman.”</p>

<p>“What do you mean?”</p>

<p>“When a simple soul tells the tale, and tries to
conceal something, she gives herself away. She
will not look straight at you. When you are
dealing with the cunning type, she will look at
you with a particularly open face and innocent
look. All the time she was telling her narratives
she was confused and upset, as was natural. But
when I asked her if she had anything else to say
her manner altered, and she became collected and
looked me straight in the face.”</p>

<p>“Oh, you imagine these things. I didn’t see
any difference.”</p>

<p>“Very good,” said Collins, “we shall see.”</p>

<p>“Now for the next move,” said Sinclair, who
always got irritated when his colleague assumed
this superior manner. “I must go to the Yard
and make a full report. We cannot keep this
thing secret. It will make a great stir. Will
you come with me?”</p>

<p>“I will run you down in my car, and then must
get off at once.”</p>

<p>“Where to?” said the other in surprise.</p>

<p>“Someone must break the news to the girl. It’s
a rotten job, but it’s of the greatest importance.
I am off to Devonshire, and hope I shall arrive in
time.”</p>

<p>“In time?”</p>

<p>“Before the news reaches there.”</p>

<p>“You’ve got something at the back of your
mind, I can see that. It’s not just to spare the
girl’s feelings.”</p>

<p>Collins smiled. “I would like to make the
acquaintance of the family,” he said.</p>

<p>“But there is only one in the family,” said
Sinclair surprised.</p>

<p>“Perhaps,” said Collins.</p>

<p>They made their way into the Square, where
dusk was falling.</p>

<p>Several persons were looking up at the house
and pointing.</p>

<p>“What the devil is the meaning of that?” said
Sinclair, as Collins was starting the car.</p>

<p>“Ask me another, jump in,” and they went off.</p>

<p>As they turned into Bond Street, where the
lights were on, they saw a newspaper boy
shouting, and running down the street. In front of
him was a news-bill, on which was printed:</p>

<blockquote class="centered"><div>
  “Home Secretary Murdered at his House.<br/>
  Full Details.”
</div></blockquote>

<p>“Well, I’m damned,” said the Superintendent.</p>

<p>Collins stopped the car, and bought a paper.</p>

<p>On the News page, across two columns, was a
flaring account of the murder.</p>

<p>“What in Hell’s name is the meaning of this?”
said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Let’s go to the Yard,” said Collins, putting in
the clutch.</p>

<p>Mr. Boyce was a flabby man of fifty. He had
had an unsuccessful career at the Bar which
would have ruined a man without means; but his
father was a distinguished Judge of the High
Court, and had considerable influence. After
trying to get his son a job as Stipendiary and a
County Court Judge, he at last jobbed him into
the position of Commissioner in Scotland Yard,
where he subsisted on the brains of his
subordinates. He listened with an assumption of wisdom
to the account of the affair given by Sinclair.
Collins had come with him after the incident of
the newspaper. He had a profound contempt for
Boyce, which the other resented though he dared
not show his resentment.</p>

<p>While Sinclair was reporting, Collins had got
busy with a timetable, and then turned to the
telephone.</p>

<p>The others waited while he called up.</p>

<p>After several conversations, he laid the
receiver down, and turned to the other two.</p>

<p>“The Editor of the ‘Evening Rag,’ ” said he.
“I asked him where he got the news of the
murder from, and he says via the Central News. He
says he was careful to ascertain whether it was
authentic before he sent it to press. What do you
think he says?”</p>

<p>“Can’t guess,” said Sinclair shortly.</p>

<p>“He says it came in in the form of a report
from Scotland Yard, on official paper, signed by
Superintendent Sinclair.”</p>

<p>Sinclair turned purple.</p>

<p>Boyce looked at him with large, fishy eyes.</p>

<p>“Really, really,” he said, “this is most
unorthodox.”</p>

<p>“You don’t suppose I sent it in, do you, sir,”
spluttered Sinclair.</p>

<p>Collins intervened.</p>

<p>“I can answer for that,” said he; “Sinclair has
been with me the whole time. No; there is
another explanation for this.”</p>

<p>“What is that?”</p>

<p>“Why the same person who called us on the
’phone, and probably the murderer. It is curious
how vain these people are. He may have stepped
too far. It’s just possible he’s given us a
valuable clue. One cannot send letters with
impunity. There’s the post mark, and the time.”</p>

<p>“The document must be obtained,” said
Boyce.</p>

<p>“I have already asked the Central News to
send it here for inspection. It is coming now by
hand.”</p>

<p>While they waited, Collins turned to Sinclair.</p>

<p>“About that telephone call, you say it was a
woman’s voice?”</p>

<p>“Well, of course, I thought so at the time; but
it may have been a man’s disguised.”</p>

<p>“Or something else?” said Collins.</p>

<p>“What do you mean?” said Boyce, almost
startled.</p>

<p>“Well, it might have been a boy’s voice.”</p>

<p>“Oh, surely not.”</p>

<p>“We cannot eliminate the possibility, and then
again it might have been a man’s voice not
disguised.”</p>

<p>“How could that be?”</p>

<p>“There are some men with treble voices who
sing falsetto like a boy. We cannot take
anything for granted.”</p>

<p>Boyce gave a sniff. He did not like this sort of
speculation.</p>

<p>“I must get back and change, and then get
some food, and catch the night train,” said
Collins. “I have plenty of time, so we can go into
the position if you care to. You had better have
some grub with me, and if you care to join us,”
he said to Boyce, “I shall be delighted.”</p>

<p>“Thank you very much, I will with pleasure,”
said the other. It was just what he wanted. He
could listen to the others and then retail the
information as his own. It was the way in which
he worked his department.</p>

<p>A messenger boy was ushered in by a clerk, and
handed a document to Sinclair, who signed the
receipt and the lad departed.</p>

<p>In haste he opened the envelope, and pulled
out another which had been opened. It was
addressed to the Central News Agency, and was a
Government envelope. Inside was a sheet of
paper with the official stamp of Scotland Yard.</p>

<p>The note was short and in type.</p>

<p>“Sir,” it said, “I am authorized to inform you
that the Home Secretary, Sir James Watson,
was murdered this afternoon at his house in
Leveson Square between three and four o’clock,
by an unknown assailant. He was shot through
the head, and death was instantaneous.</p>

<p>“ ‘The cause of the crime is at present
unknown, and no trace of the assailant can be
found. Scotland Yard have the matter in hand,
and a reward will shortly be offered for
information leading to the apprehension of the
murderer.’ ”</p>

<p>It was signed ‘Arthur Sinclair, Superintendent,
C.I.D.’ and had the official stamp on it.</p>

<p>Sinclair laid the paper down with a look of
bewilderment.</p>

<p>“We must keep this carefully,” said Boyce
sententiously. “It is a document of the utmost
importance.”</p>

<p>“This is of greater importance,” said Collins
quietly.</p>

<p>The other two looked at him in surprise. He
was holding the envelope.</p>

<p>Slowly he laid it on the table and pointed.</p>

<p>“This has escaped the notice of the Central
News people. Probably because they have an
assistant to open envelopes who simply throws
them into the waste-paper basket. I particularly
asked them to get the envelope, which they have
done.”</p>

<p>“But what is the point?”</p>

<p>Collins placed his finger on the postmark.</p>

<p>“Two forty-five,” said he. “This was sent off
before the murder took place.”</p>

<p>The three men looked at each other in silence.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch02">

<h2>Chapter II. <br/> Speculations</h2>

<p>Collins, Sinclair and Boyce had just
discussed an excellent glass of port after a
frugal but well-cooked meal at Collins’ flat.</p>

<p>The room was tastefully but not luxuriously
furnished, and was stamped with the
individuality of the occupier.</p>

<p>Over the mantelpiece was an oar, a relic of the
time when Collins had stroked his college boat to
victory in the “Mays.”</p>

<p>Four selected pictures were on the walls, but
the eye was caught by ‘Napoleon, the Last Phase,’
which seemed to dominate the room, with its
tortured sadness.</p>

<p>Collins rose, rang the bell for coffee, and
handed round cigars.</p>

<p>During the meal all reference to the tragedy of
the day had been dropped by tacit consent. Now
each of the men drew up his chair to the fire,
and prepared to discuss the affair—in spite of
the heat of the day the nights were cold.</p>

<p>Collins suggested, with an irony which was
lost on the others, that Boyce should give them
the light of his wisdom on the problem.</p>

<p>This he hastily declined, and Sinclair asked
Collins to open the ball. Here he was in his
element.</p>

<p>“I will go through the facts, and Sinclair can
check me.” The others nodded assent. The
cigars were good and the chairs comfortable.
They were in the right mood for listening.</p>

<p>“First then,” said Collins, “there are four
possibilities. It may have been suicide, but the
doctor does not think that is possible. There was
no blackening round the wound, and it would
not be likely that a man could shoot himself
through the head and throw the revolver away
from him.”</p>

<p>“But what about the telephone messages and
the newspaper article?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“We are coming to that, but they may have
nothing to do with the crime.”</p>

<p>The other two exchanged glances.</p>

<p>“Then we come to accident. That is a
possibility. A man may have tried blackmail or to
extract some secret, and fired by accident. Here
again the position of the body and the whole
arrangement of the room are against such an
idea.”</p>

<p>“Then there is only murder?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“Not quite,” said the other. “There is first the
work of a madman.”</p>

<p>“But that is nevertheless murder,” said
Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Yes; but we then have to proceed on an
entirely different basis. If this is the work of a
lunatic, it explains the telephone messages and
the newspaper article. It is just the sort of
thing that a madman with an inordinate vanity
would do. And we need not look for motive. If
that is so, our task will be simplified.”</p>

<p>The others agreed.</p>

<p>“Now we come to the fourth. A cold-blooded
and deliberate murder, of which each detail was
planned beforehand so accurately that the
criminal had the effrontery to inform the Press
before it was done.”</p>

<p>“That is the most probable,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“I agree, but we must not lose sight of the
others.”</p>

<p>“Now for our facts. At sometime before 2.30
when the box was cleared, a letter was posted at
Westminster Bridge Post Office, the contents of
which you know. At 3.00 o’clock a man calls on
the Home Secretary who is either expected or
well known to Sir James.”</p>

<p>“How do you know that?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“Surely,” said Collins; “he opened the door
himself, and takes him straight to his library.”</p>

<p>“This man may have been the actual murderer
or not. We are here going on the statements of
the housekeeper, which may turn out to be a
tissue of lies; but I do not think so, she is not a
good enough actress for that. This man stays for
half an hour, and is let out by the Home
Secretary. After that Sir James writes a letter and
posts it himself. He returns and goes to his room
complaining of feeling sleepy.”</p>

<p>“Did he?” said Sinclair, “I did not hear that.”</p>

<p>“Certainly,” said Collins, “Mrs. Simmons said
so, if she is reliable. Very good, he locks himself
in, and asks not to be disturbed. Here he
remains, as far as we know, till the murder takes
place. We find the door locked and the
windows fastened, with no apparent means of escape.
There is no one in the room.”</p>

<p>“By Jove, he was a cool hand,” said Sinclair.
“All the time he was talking with Sir James the
letter was on its way to the Central News, and
might have arrived. He must have calculated
things pretty well.”</p>

<p>“Undoubtedly, and he probably knew that
there was no telephone in the house.”</p>

<p>Collins got up and handed round the cigar box.
When he resumed his seat he continued, and his
face was grave.</p>

<p>“A Home Secretary is very open to attack. He
may have refused to pardon a criminal, and the
man when he comes out from penal servitude or
imprisonment will seek revenge. He is always
getting threatening letters. Then there are
murderers whom he reprieves, and the relatives of
the murdered man may seek revenge. Again,
there are political fanatics. You remember the
Phœnix Park murders.”</p>

<p>“Of course,” said Boyce, “the whole staff will
be put on to-morrow to investigate this side of
the question.” Collins nodded.</p>

<p>“Then there is a personal revenge. His life
appears to be a blameless and honourable one,
but one never knows; there are skeletons in the
best of cupboards.”</p>

<p>“There was a ne’er-do-well son,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Chut, don’t let’s come to any personalities
until we have more data; we shall be following
wandering fires.”</p>

<p>Sinclair was not to be silenced.</p>

<p>“What do you make of the behaviour of Lewis
when I asked him to come with me?” he said.</p>

<p>“I don’t pretend to make anything of it. It
may have the most natural of explanations.”</p>

<p>“I have never known him to behave like that
before,” he persisted. Collins ignored him.</p>

<p>“We have five things to bear in mind, or shall
I put it we have five questions to answer:</p>

<p>“Who sent the letter to the Central News, and
for what object?</p>

<p>“Who called us up on the telephone, and why?</p>

<p>“Who was the man who called at three?</p>

<p>“How did the murderer get in, and how did he
escape?</p>

<p>“What was the motive of the murderer?”</p>

<p>“You’ve left out the most important of all,”
said Boyce, “who was the murderer?”</p>

<p>“Yes, of course, there’s always that,” said
Collins with an indulgent smile.</p>

<p>“You’ve put it very well,” said Sinclair, who
was in a genial mood after Collins’ excellent
fare.</p>

<p>“We must find out all we can about the letter
and envelope.”</p>

<p>“It was a most extraordinarily good forgery,
that signature,” said Boyce, “I would have sworn
in any court it was yours.”</p>

<p>Sinclair’s face flushed. “Are you suggesting
anything, sir,” he said.</p>

<p>“Of course not, my dear fellow, only it was,
wasn’t it?”</p>

<p>“Then you must try and find out about the
telephone calls,” intervened Collins.</p>

<p>“I shall have Mrs. Simmons up to the Yard and
take down a full statement,” said Boyce, anxious
to show he had a grasp of the situation.</p>

<p>“All right, I must put a few things together
and get off. We will each carry on with our own
line of research.”</p>

<p>And he went into the next room.</p>

<p>“Has he got something up his sleeve?” said
Boyce. “It’s not like him to go off when there’s
an interesting problem to solve. It can’t be just
to break the news, he knows nothing of these
people.”</p>

<p>“He’s pretty deep, and it may be he saw
something that I didn’t,” said Sinclair, modestly.
“He seemed to think Mrs. Simmons was holding
something back.”</p>

<p>Collins came back with a small suit-case.</p>

<p>“I will let you know when I am coming back,”
he said, “and we will meet and compare notes.
This will make a most almighty stir, and if the
Prime Minister thinks it is the work of an
ex-convict or anything of that sort, you will get it
hot.”</p>

<p>Boyce made a wry face.</p>

<p>“I am afraid so,” he said.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch03">

<h2>Chapter III. <br/> At the Vale</h2>

<p>The Vale was situated in one of the lovely
valleys of North Devon on the borders of
Somerset. In the distance could be seen the
Mendip Hills. Here the summer stayed on when
autumn had taken hold of less favoured spots.</p>

<p>It was a fine old house, half-timbered, nestling
in the valley, almost hidden in trees and covered
with ivy. The gardens had been the special joy
of Sir James Watson. It was here he led his
simple home life away from the factions of
Westminster and the labours of his thankless office.</p>

<p>He was a cold, haughty, reserved man, with
few friends. His one joy in a rather lonely life
was his daughter Mabel. Like so many widowers
with an only daughter, he was somewhat selfish,
and could never believe that she had grown up.
He had watched with anxiety the attentions
which had been paid to her by the many who had
appeared as possible suitors.</p>

<p>She, unconscious of it all, had led a secluded
life among her flowers; she hated the times she
had to spend in the gloomy house in Town, and
had no liking for London or its gaieties.</p>

<p>Her mother had died when she was a baby, and
no cloud of sorrow except one had crossed her
path.</p>

<p>That one had been when her brother, quite a
boy, had been sent down from Oxford, and her
father had sternly pointed to the door, and told
him never to come back till he had redeemed his
character.</p>

<p>He had provided ample funds for the young
man to make a fresh start, and had recommended
him to the care of an old friend in Monte Video.
He had refused to tell his daughter where the
brother had gone, lest they should write to each
other.</p>

<p>Mabel had been only a child at the time, but
she never forgot her brother. As she sat in the
garden after breakfast no shadow crossed her
mind. The letters and papers had not arrived,
as they were out of the beaten track.</p>

<p>John, the butler, approached her from the
house with a salver, on which he bore a visiting
card.</p>

<p>“A gentleman wishes to see you, Miss Mabel,”
he said, and handed the card. She took it and
read,</p>

<blockquote class="centered"><div>
  Mr. Sylvester Collins,<br/>
  14, Severn Street,<br/>
  London, W.
</div></blockquote>

<p>“What does he want?” said she.</p>

<p>“I do not know, Miss, but he asked if you could
see him on an important matter. He has come
down by the night train from London.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I’ll come and see him,” and she got up and
went in.</p>

<p>Collins had slept on the way down, and had
breakfasted on the train. He felt quite fresh
after a motor ride from Wilton-on-Sea, but he
had a strong distaste for his task.</p>

<p>He walked up and down the fine old drawing-room,
through the open windows of which came
the scent of roses.</p>

<p>The girl entered, and he was struck with her
simple beauty, without any of the adornments of
the modern girl, and in her dainty morning frock
of cretonne.</p>

<p>He knew that in a few moments her present
happiness would be turned to bitter sorrow. She
advanced towards him at once, and took his hand
in a friendly way.</p>

<p>“You are a friend of my father’s, I suppose,”
she said.</p>

<p>“Miss Watson,” he said gravely. “It is no
good beating about the bush. I have some bad
news for you. You must try and be brave.”</p>

<p>“My father,” she said, with quick instinct.</p>

<p>He nodded.</p>

<p>“Don’t tell me anything has happened to him.
He only left me the day before yesterday. Is he
ill?”</p>

<p>In her excitement she had not let go of his
hand, and her fingers retained their hold.</p>

<p>“You must try and bear up, a terrible thing
has happened. The worst that can happen.”</p>

<p>“You mean,” she said, her face turning pale,
“that he is dead.”</p>

<p>“Yes,” he said.</p>

<p>The shock of such an announcement does not,
as a rule, have the instant effect that is supposed
to take place. The mind cannot at once grasp
the facts. It is like a shell wound. For a
moment the wounded man gazes in surprise at a
stump where his arm was a moment before. It
takes some seconds before realization or pain is
felt.</p>

<p>So it was with Mabel. It was as though
someone were telling her a tale of some remote
happening which did not concern her.</p>

<p>“How was it?” she whispered.</p>

<p>He had expected tears, possibly a fainting fit.
This calm surprised him for the moment.</p>

<p>“Shall I tell you?” he said.</p>

<p>“Please.”</p>

<p>“He was found shot in his library yesterday.”</p>

<p>“Do you mean murdered?” she said, dismissing
the thought of suicide unconsciously.</p>

<p>“I am afraid so,” he replied. The sweat stood
on his forehead. What a fool he had been to
undertake this task!</p>

<p>“And you have come to tell me about it? How
kind of you,” she said, as in a dream. He saw
this could not last, and with quick instinct rang
the bell.</p>

<p>The door opened, and an old servant with a
sweet face came in. She had been Mabel’s nurse,
and had remained with her as a sort of
companion and friend. At the sight of her
something seemed to snap in the girl’s head, and she
ran to her.</p>

<p>“Oh, Nanna,” she cried. “My father has been
murdered.”</p>

<p>The woman looked indignantly at Collins, as
though he had struck her darling, and took her
in her arms, where the tears came at last.</p>

<p>Collins withdrew to the farther side of the
room, and looked at the garden. When he
turned, the room was empty.</p>

<p>Irresolute, he strolled into the old garden.
What a catastrophe had he brought by his news!
Better, perhaps, if he had wired.</p>

<p>Still, he must go through with it. He could
not study the feelings of the poor girl when
larger issues were at stake.</p>

<p>Presently he saw the butler coming towards
him.</p>

<p>The old man was bent, and he had been crying.</p>

<p>“My mistress is too upset to see you, sir,” he
said; “but I was to ask you to make yourself at
home. And would you like some refreshment?”</p>

<p>“Thank you,” he replied. “I have had
breakfast. I do not need anything. You have heard
the sad news.”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, the papers have come, and the post.
They all know now,” and he broke down.</p>

<p>“Come, come, man,” said Collins almost
roughly. “It’s all right for women to cry.”</p>

<p>“I had known him for twenty-five years, sir,”
said the old man simply, “and I wish it had been
me instead of him. Do you think they will catch
the murderer?”</p>

<p>“Surely,” said Collins. “But perhaps I had
better go.”</p>

<p>“Oh, no, sir, Miss Mabel wants to see you when
she is a bit better. She particularly asked me to
say so.”</p>

<p>“Well, then, if so, perhaps you could give me
a minute? I would like to ask a question or two.”</p>

<p>The old butler bowed and waited.</p>

<p>“You were here when Sir James’ son went
away?”</p>

<p>“Master Ronald? Oh, sir, I am sure he is
nothing to do with this terrible murder.”</p>

<p>“Whoever said he was? But he is now heir to
his father’s baronetcy even if he has been cut out
of his father’s will, and we must try and find
him.”</p>

<p>“You’ll excuse me, sir,” said the old man. “But
are you a friend of the family?”</p>

<p>“I hope so,” said Collins cheerily, and not to
commit himself.</p>

<p>“What exactly did young Ronald do?
Anything very dreadful?” he asked.</p>

<p>The butler drew himself up with dignity.</p>

<p>“I think, sir, you had better ask someone else,”
he said.</p>

<p>“That’s very stupid of you,” said Collins, with
a smile which took the sting from his words.
“You only make me believe it was something very
dreadful, and I don’t expect it was at all.”</p>

<p>The butler was not sharp, he fell at once.</p>

<p>“Oh, no, sir, not at all, it was only when he was
at Oxford. He went off to the ‘Derby’ without
leave, and lost a lot of money there. It was what
he had for the term, and when he was sent down
he had to tell Sir James. He had been rather
wild before, and that’s what happened,” he
concluded lamely.</p>

<p>“Hum,” muttered Collins. “I see, and nothing
has been heard from him for some time?”</p>

<p>“No, sir, he seems to have quite disappeared.
I don’t think he is dead, or we should have heard.
Still, if you were to advertise for him he might
come back. He ought to be here to look after
Miss Mabel till she is married.”</p>

<p>Collins looked up sharply.</p>

<p>“Is she engaged, then?” he said.</p>

<p>“Well, not exactly, but how my tongue does go.
I must get back to the house.” He moved to go.</p>

<p>“One moment,” said Collins quietly. “You can
trust me; who is the fortunate gentleman who
is—well—nearly, eh?”</p>

<p>The butler looked at him doubtfully. Had he
offered a bribe he would have refused
information, but Collins was too old a hand for that.</p>

<p>“Well, seeing as poor Sir James is gone, I
don’t think it matters. It is Mr. Eric.”</p>

<p>“Mr. Eric what?”</p>

<p>“I thought you would know, being a friend of
the family. Mr. Eric Sanders, Sir James’ private
secretary,” and he looked at Collins with
suspicion.</p>

<p>He saw the look. “Oh, that’s it,” said he. “Of
course, I ought to have guessed, and how does
his suit prosper?”</p>

<p>“I beg your pardon, sir?” said the other.</p>

<p>“I mean are they engaged, or just likely to
become so?”</p>

<p>“Sir James wouldn’t hear of it, and last time
Mr. Eric was here they had words over it, for I
heard them, but I must really be going.”</p>

<p>“All right, John, I will wait here till Miss
Mabel wants to see me. You might bring me any
papers you have.” The butler bowed and made
his way to the house.</p>

<p>“So that’s it, is it?” he said to himself. “There
are at least two candidates for honours. We are
getting on.” The papers told him nothing.
Sinclair had been to work, and apart from a bald
statement of the facts, and obituary notices, there
was nothing striking. Of course, there were
leading articles on the perils of foreign
anarchists and on the saintly character of the
deceased, but this was old stock-in-trade, kept ready
for any assassination of a notable person which
might occur, and adapted to circumstances.</p>

<p>“As long as this country continues to harbour,
etc.,” said one Daily. He tossed them aside, one
by one. Sir James, of course, had a good
selection of papers sent to his house, and they arrived
whether he was there or not.</p>

<p>He sat long in deep thought, smoking
continuously. Presently he put his hand into his
pocket, and drew out his pocket book. He looked
round with his habitual caution, and then took
out a visiting card. On one side was the name
of Mr. Eric Sanders, and the address of a 
well-known London Club, and on the other was
written in pencil—</p>

<p>“For God’s sake, see me. I will not detain
you.”</p>

<p>“Sinclair, my friend, you would have liked to
get this—pushed under the door. Mrs. Simmons,
you were not telling the whole truth. I
think this requires further investigation.”</p>

<p>He rose from his seat and strolled through the
old garden with its gorgeous, herbaceous beds of
late summer, where delphiniums and hollyhocks
and the bright blue of borage made a dream of
colour.</p>

<p>It was all very fair, and quiet after the dust
and sweat of London. He returned to the house
filled with a vague disquiet. Entering the hall,
he was met by a maid.</p>

<p>“Miss Mabel would like to see you in her own
room,” she said, and on his nodding assent she
conducted him to a sweet sitting room, fragrant
with flowers and furnished with the taste of a
girl who had the means to gratify her every wish.</p>

<p>She was seated on a sofa, white faced, and
dressed all in black.</p>

<p>She had conquered her emotion. Her old
nurse stood by her like a sentry on duty.</p>

<p>“Mr. Collins,” she said: “I am puzzled to
know why you undertook this long journey to
break this sad news to me. Were you a friend
of my father’s? I am very grateful,” she
continued hastily, as though fearing she was too
frigid in her manner.</p>

<p>“Really, to tell the truth, I don’t know myself
why I came,” he answered. “When this terrible
event happened, your old housekeeper was quite
unnerved, and there seemed no one to undertake
the job. It did not seem right that you should
see it first in the papers, or get a telegram.”</p>

<p>“I am much obliged to you. You must not
think me ungrateful, but of course I am rather
upset at present. I have read what the
newspapers have to say. Perhaps you can tell me
more?” and she motioned him to sit.</p>

<p>“I won’t go into details, Miss Watson,” he
said. “The accounts in the papers are accurate
as far as they go. I can, however, tell you this.
Your father did not suffer at all. His look was
most peaceful, and it appears that he was shot
while asleep.”</p>

<p>A look of pain crossed her face, but she
mastered her emotion.</p>

<p>“I am thankful for even that,” she said. “Have
the police any idea at all who can have done this
cruel thing. I do not believe my father had any
enemies, he was such a good and upright man
that no one could have a grudge against him.”</p>

<p>“At present all is dark,” he replied, “but of
course you must remember that as Home
Secretary your father was brought in contact with
the worst criminals in the country, and one of
them may have been trying to avenge a fancied
wrong. Then, again, it may have been the work
of a lunatic. That is more than probable.”</p>

<p>“In a way I hope it was,” she said. “One
could feel that it was the sort of accident that
might happen to anyone. It is so dreadful to
think that someone has deliberately murdered
him.”</p>

<p>She stumbled over the ill-omened word, and
nearly broke down. The watchful nurse came
near and laid a hand on her head. A look of
gratitude shone for a moment in her eyes, and
she reached up and took the hand in hers.</p>

<p>It was a pathetic picture.</p>

<p>“You will forgive me asking,” she continued,
“but I do not quite see what you were doing
there, Mr. Collins, you are not in the Police
Force?”</p>

<p>“I am a barrister by profession,” he replied,
“and had gone there with Superintendent
Sinclair, who is an old friend of mine. Now, can I
do anything for you before I go? You will
forgive a stranger saying so, but you seem so
entirely alone. Oh, I know you have the most loyal
and faithful servants,” he added hastily, “but
you don’t seem to have a friend to help you.
Haven’t you some relation I can wire for?”</p>

<p>“I have no near relative. We have led a very
secluded life. You see we are so much in town.
My father had many acquaintances, but no real
friends. Those who did not know him thought
him very reserved. He was not really so, you
know.”</p>

<p>“You were an only child?” he said carelessly.</p>

<p>“Mr. Collins, I am going to tell you. It will
all come out now. I had a brother, ten years
older than I. He quarrelled with my father. It
was nothing very dreadful, but father thought
he was doing no good and getting into bad
company, so he sent him off to South America. For
some years now we have lost sight of him. It
was a great grief to father. He had hoped that
Ronald would have come back and settled down
here.”</p>

<p>“Well, we must find him now, as he will be the
new Baronet, and there will be advertisements
everywhere for him. I suppose there is no
reason why he should not come back?”</p>

<p>“None whatever,” she said proudly. “What
he did was only a boy’s escapade when at
Oxford, there was nothing criminal.”</p>

<p>“Well, I expect there will be little difficulty
in finding him now,” he said hopefully; “but it
will take some time. Meanwhile, isn’t there
anyone who could help?”</p>

<p>The colour rose to her pale face.</p>

<p>“I think you ought to wire for Mr. Sanders,”
she said, “he was my father’s private secretary,
and knows more about his affairs than anyone
else.”</p>

<p>Collins gave her one keen look. “Certainly,”
he said. “He is obviously the man to come.
Where shall I find him?”</p>

<p>“At the Home Office,” she said. “He is
certain to be there, but I expect he has been round
to Leveson Square this morning.”</p>

<p>“I will send off a wire at once, and then I will
take my leave.”</p>

<p>“Certainly not,” she said. “You must stay to
lunch, if you don’t mind a house of mourning,”
she added sadly.</p>

<p>At that moment a knock came at the door, and
the butler entered.</p>

<p>“The post, Miss,” he said, presenting a salver,
“and the postman brought this telegram at the
same time. Is there any answer?”</p>

<p>She broke the envelope and read, a look of
pleasure passing over her face.</p>

<p>“This is from Eric—Mr. Sanders, he is
coming down here to-day. I am so glad. It will save
you the trouble of wiring.”</p>

<p>Collins said nothing. The butler had handed
him a letter in Sinclair’s writing. He put it into
his pocket, and rose to his feet. “I am very glad
for your sake,” he said. “You will be glad to
have a man’s advice. I suppose you will be
coming to Town?”</p>

<p>“Of course. I ought to go at once, but it is
such a shock. I think I must wait till
tomorrow.”</p>

<p>“If you will excuse me, I will just go and read
this letter, then,” he said, and took his departure.</p>

<p>He went into the garden and to his old seat,
and broke the seal of the letter.</p>

<p>It was short, and he read it twice, a puzzled
look on his face. It ran:</p>

<blockquote class="letter"><div>

  <p class="salutation">“Dear Collins,</p>

   <p>If you are expecting to find out anything in
   Devonshire, you are on a wild goose chase. Lewis
   has fled, and we have damning evidence against him.
   Come at once if you want to be in at the death.
   What’s your game, anyway?</p>

   <p class="valediction">Yours in haste,</p>
   <p class="signature">A. Sinclair.”</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>“I must get back,” he muttered to himself.
“Whatever is Sinclair after?”</p>

<p>A gong sounded within the house, and he
slowly rose to his feet and went in. Miss Watson was
waiting for him, and they sat down. She was
lost in her own mournful thoughts, and would
scarcely eat anything. She tried hard to rouse
herself. Collins was a brilliant conversationalist,
and had a charm of manner which few could
resist. He set himself to interest her, not without
success.</p>

<p>At the end of the meal he told her he must get
back at once, and noticed that she gave a look
almost of relief, though she tried to hide it.</p>

<p>“I am deeply grateful to you for coming down
here, and for your offer of help,” she said.</p>

<p>“Not at all,” he answered. “I will go to your
house and do anything I can in London. Of
course, there will have to be an inquest, but we
will spare you all we can.”</p>

<p>“We?” she said, in surprise. “Then you are
mixed up in this?”</p>

<p>“Oh, there is no secret,” he said. “I am a
barrister, as I told you, but I do a little in
helping in an amateur way with these sort of cases.
It is my hobby.”</p>

<p>“A rather horrible hobby,” she said, “but of
course it is necessary. I hope you find out the
criminal—and yet, I don’t know, in some ways
I hope you don’t.”</p>

<p>“The murderer of your father,” he blurted out,
scandalised at such sentiments.</p>

<p>“Oh, I know I ought to want him punished,
and yet, the awful trial, the cold cell, and then
the last horrible scene. I am afraid I am always
on the side of the criminal. Of course, you think
that’s dreadful.”</p>

<p>“I think it does more justice to your heart
than to your head,” said he with a smile.</p>

<p>“English justice is such a cold, merciless
thing. When I hear of people who come
forward to what they call ‘further the ends of
justice,’ I always think it is either for notoriety or
for reward.”</p>

<p>He laughed.</p>

<p>“It’s a good thing everyone does not think as
you do,” said he.</p>

<p>“I was taught as a child that vengeance
belongs to God, not to man, and I believe it is a
worse punishment to leave the criminal to his
conscience than to punish him.”</p>

<p>“You say that because you have never come in
contact with the real criminal,” said he. “He
has no conscience.”</p>

<p>“I don’t believe that. I am sure I would
always rather hide a fugitive from justice than
give him up.”</p>

<p>“This is rank treason,” he said; “but I admire
your sentiments.”</p>

<p>“But don’t agree with them?”</p>

<p>“We must each of us act according to our
lights,” he answered more gravely than he
intended.</p>

<p>She held out her hand.</p>

<p>“If you will excuse me, I will say goodbye.
The car will be ready for you, and, I hope, we
shall meet again in happier circumstances,” and
she gave a pathetic little smile.</p>

<p>When she had gone, he stood where he was.</p>

<p>“What a fool I was to start bandying words
with her in her present state. Now for London.
You’ve no time for sentiment.”</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch04">

<h2>Chapter IV. <br/> The Missing Letter</h2>

<p>Sinclair was sitting at his desk, and his
brows were knitted. Before him was a
letter.</p>

<p>He read it over again for the third time, and
then told the clock that he was damned.
Then he picked up the envelope, and examined
it closely.</p>

<p>It was the morning after the murder.</p>

<p>This was what he read.</p>

<blockquote class="letter"><div>

   <p class="address">89, Leveson Square,<br/>
   London, W.</p>

   <p class="salutation">“Dear Mr. Sinclair,</p>

   <p>I am writing to you, but I have grave doubts
   whether this letter will ever reach you, and
   therefore, I am not telling you more than necessary. I
   am in the hands of one of the cleverest ruffians that
   this generation has produced. My life is in
   imminent danger if it is not already forfeited. There is
   not time for explanations.</p>

   <p>Follow these instructions carefully.</p>

   <p>Find my son who has disappeared for some
   years, but was last heard of in Monte Video. Tell
   him to look in the place where I hid my will in his
   presence, and he will find all the necessary
   documents to bring a great criminal to justice. I
   cannot be more specific. I am writing to you because
   I know you have done good service and are
   painstaking. Boyce is a fool. Sylvester Collins is a
   theorist who will be no help to you in this matter.
   Do not consult him. If I am dead when this
   reaches you, act as I have said. If nothing has
   happened, I rely on your honour to destroy this
   letter and I will send for you. I am very tired.</p>

   <p class="valediction">Yours faithfully,</p>
   <p class="signature">James Watson.”</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>Sinclair sat long over this letter. What a vista
of happenings did it conjure up. He was a plain
man. Why did not Sir James write plainly, give
the name of the criminal straight out and save
further bother? Why all this mystery? What
had happened in that grim library in the
afternoon? Oh, bother it all, what a maze of
evidence. If only it had been a straightforward
murder, with plenty of blood and clues as in a
detective story.</p>

<p>No; he would not tell Collins. He had
something up his sleeve—well, let them both follow
their own line.</p>

<p>He took a pen and paper, and put down his
facts. Here was one thing cleared up. This was
the letter which Sir James had posted himself,
after his interview with the unknown man.</p>

<p>That, at any rate, corroborated the
housekeeper’s evidence. Then the visitor had
threatened his life; if not, why was the danger
hanging over him so greatly that he dare not venture
further than the post?</p>

<p>A message was brought in. It was a wire from
Collins to say he was on the way to London.
“Do nothing till I come,” it ended.</p>

<p>“That’s like his cheek,” said Sinclair to
himself.</p>

<p>He put the letter carefully away in his pocket
book, and took his hat and stick. “I am going to
Leveson Square,” said he to the messenger.
“There is no answer.”</p>

<p>Once inside the house, through the usual,
morbid crowd who gathered outside, he met the
plain-clothes officer on duty.</p>

<p>“Anything to report?” he said, in answer to
the other’s salute.</p>

<p>“No, sir,” said he. “They are still at work on
the floor and ceiling and the walls.”</p>

<p>A gang of expert men had been engaged to
search for a means of exit from the room by
which the murderer had escaped. There had
been found no trace of a secret door, or so much
as a crevice through which a mouse could get.
They had even ripped up all the boards, and
taken off the oak panelling from the walls. The
ceiling had been examined all over and the
chimney sounded. There was nothing.</p>

<p>“Have you found anything in the nature of a
letter or anything, anywhere?” he asked of the
man in charge.</p>

<p>“Nothing, sir, but we can search all the
furniture and books.”</p>

<p>“Please do so. It is of great importance, and
say nothing about it to anyone.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir,” said the man who was keen
on this job, and wanted to stand well with the
superintendent.</p>

<p>Sinclair addressed the plain-clothes officer.</p>

<p>“Has the body been searched?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. All that was found on him has been
put on the dining-room table.”</p>

<p>“Good,” he said, and went into the room.</p>

<p>Here were all the little things a man carries
about with him, which look so pitiable when he
is dead. A fountain pen, pocket book, cigar case,
and a leather case containing a miniature of his
dead wife and his daughter.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch05">

<h2>Chapter V. <br/> A Mysterious Visit</h2>

<p>By dining on the train, Collins had just time
to do a Gilbert and Sullivan opera. He had
a seat permanently booked, which was to be
disposed of if he did not turn up in time.</p>

<p>After the excitement of his daily life, he found
these plays, which he knew almost by heart, very
refreshing. It was the dear old ‘Yeoman of the
Guard’ this night, and he lay back and listened
with his eyes half shut, absorbing the delicious
tunes like a rare old vintage.</p>

<p>“It is easier to die well than to live well, for
in sooth I have tried both,” says Colonel Fairfax.</p>

<p>How many cases he had come across in his
work where this was true. Some of the worst of
men had earned the admiration of men by their
brave end.</p>

<p>He made his way home in the purple night
through back streets and half-lighted squares
which he always preferred to the rush and
dazzling brightness of West London, when he had
thinking to do.</p>

<p>He arrived at his flat to find Sinclair waiting
for him, as he had almost expected.</p>

<p>“You’re a nice fellow,” said the latter. “I’ve
been waiting for you for over an hour. Your
man did not know where you had gone.”</p>

<p>“Anything wrong,” said the other, carelessly.</p>

<p>“Wrong,” said Sinclair. “I should think there
was. You can’t have a Home Secretary
murdered for nothing. The Premier sent for Boyce
this morning, and half the Cabinet have been
round or calling up. They all have ‘theories’
which they want us to work out.... Luckily,
Boyce is in his element, and professes great hopes
of capture and all that sort of thing.”</p>

<p>Collins helped Sinclair to a generous whiskey
and soda, took a more modest one for himself,
and sat down.</p>

<p>“Now let’s hear all about it,” he said.</p>

<p>“Well,” said the other. “We have done a good
deal of spade work, and the negative results are
of use anyhow, though our many critics would
not say so. First, as to the room. It has been
so thoroughly examined that there is no
possibility of the murderer having got out by any
secret means.”</p>

<p>“I could have told you that,” said Collins
almost contemptuously.</p>

<p>“How?” said the other.</p>

<p>“Well, nowadays, people in modern London
houses do not have trap doors and secret panels,
and all that sort of thing. That’s kept for
detective stories.”</p>

<p>“Then how in the world did he come and go?”</p>

<p>“I can’t tell you. That’s what we’ve got to
find out.”</p>

<p>“Perhaps Mrs. Simmons was an accomplice?”</p>

<p>“Not necessarily, but how did you get on with
her?”</p>

<p>“She came, and you remember Boyce said he
was going to examine her himself. The great
man was engaged with higher game, and I did
the examining. We got her whole statement
down, and turned her inside out. I am sure she
was telling the truth. She had nothing to add
to what she said yesterday.”</p>

<p>Collins grunted.</p>

<p>Sinclair looked at him for a moment, then
continued.</p>

<p>“We could get nothing further about the letter
sent to the Central News. It was, as you said,
posted at Bridge Street, but of course no one can
say any more than that. I have sent it to an
expert on typewriting to see whether we can
ascertain what machine was used.”</p>

<p>“Good.”</p>

<p>“The telephone has given us nothing. They
cannot say where the call came from, and it was
probably a Public Telephone Office. What a
nerve the man had.”</p>

<p>“Yes, but it was clever. Haven’t you noticed
that where there is nothing but the bare deed, it
is easier to concentrate on that, but all these
extraneous matters lead one away from the
essentials?</p>

<p>“Now I see you are dying to tell me. What
about Lewis?”</p>

<p>Sinclair gave a start. This man’s instinct was
uncanny.</p>

<p>“As I told you, Lewis has bolted. He did not
turn up again yesterday, and I sent a man to
see if he was ill. He had gone home, coolly
packed his things and paid his bill, telling his
landlady he would not be back, and gone.”</p>

<p>“And so you think he is the murderer?”</p>

<p>“It is suspicious, but you have not heard all.
Of course, this, coupled with his curious manner
the day before, caused me to make enquiries.
Two important facts have come to light. On the
afternoon of the murder he told his typist that
he was going out. He was very restless, and said
he could not work, and then he seemed to come
to a decision, and said, ‘I must go and see Sir
James Watson,’ and took his hat and stick.”</p>

<p>“When was this?” said Collins, leaning
forward.</p>

<p>“About 2.30, and he did not return till just
before I sent for him after the telephone message
came.”</p>

<p>Collins laughed.</p>

<p>“Then, you suppose that, having planned the
murder and written the letter saying that it had
taken place, and posted it, he tells his typist he
is going to do it and comes back in time to call
you up, and me too, and then answers your bell.”</p>

<p>“I suppose nothing,” said Sinclair, nettled. “I
am giving you facts, and I haven’t done.”</p>

<p>“Fire away, then.”</p>

<p>“When we searched his rooms after he had
gone, his landlady said he always kept a revolver
in the top drawer in his bedroom. The day
before yesterday she saw him take it out, and put
it in his pocket.”</p>

<p>“My dear fellow, this is too crude for words.
Couldn’t he have shut his door, or taken some
precaution?”</p>

<p>“Of course, I know that, but it is this sort of
mistake which hangs men.”</p>

<p>“Well, go on.”</p>

<p>“That’s all, but it is enough to go on for me.
Why has he fled, tell me that?”</p>

<p>“My dear fellow, let me demolish your house
of cards. First, would a man who is so cool a
hand that he can do what he has done, show
nervousness and fright when asked to go to the
house? Would he not rather welcome the chance,
as these vain-glorious murderers invariably do?”</p>

<p>“Perhaps.”</p>

<p>“Then, from what you tell me, he seems to have
made up his mind to go and see Sir James
suddenly. That doesn’t fit in.”</p>

<p>“How did he get into the house and out again
the second time?”</p>

<p>“It’s no good asking questions. He may have
had accomplices for all we know.”</p>

<p>“Ah, now you are opening up a new question
altogether. We have rather assumed that there
was only one man in it, but let’s keep to Lewis.”</p>

<p>“All right, then. He had access to official
paper, and knew my signature well. He had
letters of mine, and could have copied it. Then he
knew my habits, and where I should be found,
and he knew where to find you. He might even
have called up from the Yard itself.”</p>

<p>“That’s one to you, certainly,” said Collins. “I
can see Lewis having a thin time if you catch
him. What do you know about him, anyway?”</p>

<p>“Nothing much. He has been here for three
years. He came from a merchant’s office, and
applied for a clerkship. He was well
recommended, and was always keen on his work, and
very reliable. So I took him on as my
right-hand man and confidential clerk. He was known
there as my ‘familiar.’ ”</p>

<p>“That’s all straightforward. Have you taken
any action?”</p>

<p>“I have sent a full description of him to the
papers, and posted him as ‘wanted.’ ”</p>

<p>“Oh, my God,” said Collins, jumping up,
“when will you people learn the folly of this?
You know what will happen? First, you put him
at once on his guard. Then we shall have letters
from Tokio and Leningrad, besides Brighton and
Battersea, from people who have seen him and
talked to him. You know that always happens,
and if, by any chance, he is guilty, we shall have
his body washed ashore by the Thames in about
a month’s time. Or,” he added grimly, “possibly
if he is innocent.”</p>

<p>“Well, that’s the official procedure. I cannot
go behind that, especially in a case like this.”</p>

<p>Collins laughed, and sat down.</p>

<p>“It may not be a bad thing,” he said. “It may
put the murderer into a false position of
security.”</p>

<p>“You don’t think much of this, then?”</p>

<p>“I reserve judgment, but if you are right he
was one of the cleverest scoundrels of this
generation.”</p>

<p>Sinclair started. The words were the same as
in the letter he had received, and which was
burning in his pocket.</p>

<p>“But you, what did you find in Devonshire?”</p>

<p>“A charming house and a charming girl. It
was a rotten job to have to break the news to
her.”</p>

<p>“Then why on earth did you go?”</p>

<p>“Oh, I learnt some interesting facts about the
family.”</p>

<p>“It’s a dark business altogether, and the worst
is that we shall have no peace till it is solved. I
have had our staff working all day tracing the
movements of well-known criminals who are at
large, and any who may have had a grievance
against the Home Secretary. Also of any
lunatics who are at large, and, as you know, there
are many of them.”</p>

<p>They smoked in silence for a while.</p>

<p>“Have you any clue at all? Don’t tell me if
you would rather not, but I fancied you were
holding something back?” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“You have asked me, and I will tell you. I
have. The only reason I have not confided in
you is, not from lack of confidence, but because
I was afraid of just such action as you have
taken in the case of Lewis. You see, you are
bound to do certain things by your position. If
this develops I will tell you.”</p>

<p>“Thanks,” said the other, his face clearing.</p>

<p>“Did you notice anything curious in Mrs.
Simmons’ statement?” said Collins, after a few
minutes’ silence.</p>

<p>“In what particular?”</p>

<p>“I commend it to your notice. She said that
when the unknown visitor had been with Sir
James for some time, she heard a ring from the
library. When she went upstairs, Sir James was
showing the visitor out. If so, who rang, and
why?”</p>

<p>“Just a moment, I have the statement here,”
and he pulled out his pocket book, and took out
a folded paper. “Here we are. Yes, you are
quite right, I did not notice it at the time. You
think that curious?”</p>

<p>“I think it⸺ Hush, what was that?”</p>

<p>“What?” said the other.</p>

<p>“I could have sworn I heard someone moving.”</p>

<p>“Your man, probably. I heard nothing.”</p>

<p>“My man does not live in. Don’t move.”</p>

<p>He got to his feet without noise, and went to
his desk. Opening a drawer he took out an
automatic pistol, and went to the door. With a swift
movement he flung it open. Outside was
darkness. Collins turned on the light and looked
around.</p>

<p>“Nothing,” he said. “Must have been my
imagination. Hullo, what’s this?”</p>

<p>He stooped down and picked up a piece of
paper from the floor.</p>

<p>It was a sheet torn from a pocket book, and he
brought it into the room, closing the door
carefully.</p>

<p>“Read that,” he said, and for all his coolness
there was a tremble in his voice. “You are both
on the wrong track. Poor fools,” and that was
all.</p>

<p>“Come,” said Collins, incisively. “We must
search the flat.”</p>

<p>It did not take long, as the flat was not a large
one. There was not a trace of anyone, and the
door was fast.</p>

<p>“Well, well, things are getting lively. We have
to deal with a pretty customer. We shall have
to look out for ourselves.”</p>

<p>Sinclair was white. He got up and helped
himself to a whiskey.</p>

<p>Collins picked up the statement of Mrs.
Simmons from the floor, and read it carefully
through.</p>

<p>Then he folded it up and handed it back to
Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Was there anything else found on his person
of interest?” he said.</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Sinclair, and took from his pocket
a leather case. “The other things were just the
ordinary things a man carries: they are at the
house. This I brought with me. It contains
miniatures of Sir James’ wife and daughter. She
is a beautiful girl, you saw her to-day?”</p>

<p>Collins looked at the miniature long. It
showed Miss Watson as a very young girl, with
quaint curls encircling her face, but from the
eyes there looked out the same brave innocence,
and there was the wistful curve of the lips which
he had seen in the girl of to-day.</p>

<p>He turned to the other picture, and gave a
start. An intent look came into his face, and
he looked long and earnestly.</p>

<p>Sinclair looked up.</p>

<p>“They are very much alike, aren’t they?” he
said. “Anyone would know them for mother and
daughter. Do you know, when I saw that photo
miniature I almost seemed to recognise it, there
is something familiar.”</p>

<p>Collins composed his face before he answered.</p>

<p>“The likeness is striking. It’s very strange,”
he said.</p>

<p>“Strange?” said the other.</p>

<p>“Yes, strange, because I, too, seem to recognise
it. I saw her portrait at the Vale to-day.”</p>

<p>“Perhaps that is why it looks familiar,” said
Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Perhaps,” said Collins, carelessly, but his
eyes were still on the picture.</p>

<p>“You had better stay here for the night after
what has happened—it’s very late, and it’s no
good playing the fool,” he said.</p>

<p>“Do you know, I think I will. No one is
sitting up for me.”</p>

<p>“Good. I shan’t be sorry to have you,” and he
laughed.</p>

<p>“We can go to Leveson Square to-morrow, or
rather to-day,” he said. “Let’s turn in. I can
rig you out.”</p>

<p>He rose and turned to the door, slipping the
leather case into his pocket.</p>

<p>It was not the first time that Sinclair had
accepted Collins’ hospitality, and he knew from
experience what an excellent host he made.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch06">

<h2>Chapter VI. <br/> At Leveson Square</h2>

<p>The blinds were drawn at the house in
Leveson Square, and a crowd was still
gazing up at the blank windows. There is
always something gruesome in drawn blinds, and
the policeman standing at the door added to the
air of mystery and dark deeds.</p>

<p>Collins and Sinclair, refreshed by an excellent
breakfast, arrived in Collins’ car. They had been
to the Yard first.</p>

<p>Within, the appearance of the house was as
though a bomb had been dropped. All the oak
panelling from the library was piled in the hall,
with furniture and books. The library door was
open, and the floor was covered with plaster.
The men had made small holes in the ceiling at
various places, as well as having examined the
floor above. The search had been very thorough.</p>

<p>In a room upstairs lay the silent figure of the
dead statesman.</p>

<p>It had been decided that the body should
remain in the house and the doctor’s examination
had taken place at the house.</p>

<p>A Home Office expert had conducted this, and
the fussy little doctor, who had been summoned
at the first, had wormed his way in to assist.
He was full of importance.</p>

<p>They met the doctors in the dining-room.</p>

<p>“Well?” said Sinclair. “Have you found
anything?”</p>

<p>“We have extracted the bullet,” said
Broughton, the Home Office doctor. “As might have
been expected, it fits the empty cartridge, and is
exactly similar to the other five.”</p>

<p>“What a pity,” said Collins.</p>

<p>The doctor looked at him in surprise.</p>

<p>Sinclair gave a laugh.</p>

<p>“Nothing straightforward satisfies Collins,”
he said. “He loves mystery. He would have
liked you to have found a rifle bullet, or no bullet
at all.”</p>

<p>“There’s no accounting for tastes,” said the
other. “For my part I am glad enough when I
find things fitting in.”</p>

<p>“And that’s all?” said Collins.</p>

<p>“There’s one thing I can’t make out, it’s
probably nothing, but it’s queer. I have had a very
extensive experience with this sort of thing, as
you know. The bullet had only just penetrated
the brain. Now, a revolver bullet of that
calibre, fired at the distance it was, should have
smashed the back of the skull, and made a
dreadful wound. It is the heavy Army type. I sent a
policeman for a sheep’s head, which is harder
than the human skull, and fired at it in the back
garden. Look at the mess it has made,” and he
showed them the gruesome sight.</p>

<p>“Have you any suggestion to make?” said
Sinclair.</p>

<p>“The only thing I can think of is that a half
charge was used to deaden the noise. But then,
why put a half charge in one cartridge only?”</p>

<p>“I give it up,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>Collins was taking little notice. He was in a
furious mood. The morning papers had come
out with full details, not only of the crime, but
of the telephone messages and the letter to the
Central News, which made excellent copy, but
was in the highest degree indiscreet.</p>

<p>“Who the devil has done this?” he had said in
the car.</p>

<p>Sinclair had hastily disclaimed all knowledge
of it.</p>

<p>“Then it must be Boyce,” said Collins. “He is
the only other that knows about it. The fool!”</p>

<p>Presently the man himself came in, puffing and
blowing, for he had walked.</p>

<p>Collins tackled him at once.</p>

<p>“I say, Boyce, did you tell the Press all those
details which have come out to-day?”</p>

<p>Boyce looked uncomfortable.</p>

<p>“No,” he said. “I have told the Press nothing.
I only told the facts to one or two of the Cabinet
who were asking me about things yesterday.”</p>

<p>“Then you’ve put your foot into it properly,”
said Collins, bluntly. Boyce began to bluster
after the manner of a man who knows he is in
the wrong.</p>

<p>“I don’t see that any harm is done, and
anyway it is a matter for my Department to decide.
I really don’t see what it has to do with you,
Collins.”</p>

<p>“You’ll see,” said the other, shortly.</p>

<p>Boyce was offended, and, like men of his kind,
began to sulk. He ignored Collins, and turned to
Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Any news of the missing man? I see you
have a full description of him, but no photo.
That’s a pity.”</p>

<p>“We could not find one, sir,” said Sinclair.
“He seems to have been one of those men who
do not care to have their photo taken.”</p>

<p>“Suspicious, very, that,” said Boyce.</p>

<p>Collins laughed contemptuously.</p>

<p>Boyce shot him an angry look.</p>

<p>“We must lay him by the heels soon—he won’t
be able to get out of the country,” he said in a
challenging way.</p>

<p>“I don’t think we can do any more here,” said
Collins.</p>

<p>“You’ve searched all these books and the
furniture for any documents?” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“What do you expect to find?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“One never knows,” said Sinclair hastily.</p>

<p>The man addressed said, “Yes, sir, and we have
been through all his papers as you told us; there
appears to be nothing of importance. He was
very methodical, and did not appear to keep any
private documents here. Perhaps they are in
Devonshire.”</p>

<p>“We are trying to find the whereabouts of the
new Baronet, who was last heard of in Monte
Video,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“I see you are,” said Boyce; “but I should have
thought that would have been for the relatives
to do. It does not seem a Home Office matter.”</p>

<p>“Perhaps not,” said Sinclair; “but as he was
Home Secretary?”</p>

<p>“Exactly, as an act of courtesy, perhaps,” and
Boyce assumed a manner of importance. He had
become a prominent man in the last few days.
Sinclair breathed a sigh of relief. He was
thinking of the letter which he had no intention of
showing to anyone else.</p>

<p>There was a ring at the door, and the
policeman on duty brought in a telegram.</p>

<p>“For you, sir,” he said, handing it to Collins.</p>

<p>He read it while the others watched. Not a
muscle moved.</p>

<p>“No answer, thanks,” he said to the policeman,
and put it in his pocket.</p>

<p>“Anything important?” said Boyce, officiously.</p>

<p>“Oh, no,” said the other.</p>

<p>He turned into the library, and looked round.</p>

<p>“What the devil is he doing with telegrams
sent to this house?” said Boyce, irritably.</p>

<p>The remark called for no answer.</p>

<p>The telegram was from Miss Watson to say
she was coming to Town that afternoon, and
would he meet her.</p>

<p>It did not ask for an answer, which pleased
him somehow. He strolled out of the room, and
said:</p>

<p>“What a pity some of our spook merchants
cannot come and make an incantation or beat
tom-toms or something, and conjure up the scene
for us. It would be most interesting.”</p>

<p>“What is more important than mere interest,”
said Boyce, “is to bring the criminal to justice.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I suppose so, but it’s so dull when the
problem is solved, especially if it turns out banal.
It’s like a game of cricket, when you expect an
exciting ending, and the other side all get out for
about 20.”</p>

<p>“I am afraid I do not play cricket,” said Boyce,
curtly.</p>

<p>Collins eyed him, “No, you wouldn’t,” he said,
and made an enemy of him forthwith.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch07">

<h2>Chapter VII. <br/> Valuable Information</h2>

<p>Collins was punctual to the minute at
Paddington. He had dressed himself up
for the occasion, though he felt contempt for so
doing. The express from Wilton-on-Sea was up
to time.</p>

<p>From a first-class compartment Mabel Watson
descended. Her face was white and calm, but
she wore no veil. Collins walked towards the
door and stopped. After the girl, a man
descended from the carriage. He was tall and
dressed in good taste, but had a weak looking
face, with a wandering light moustache and
straw-coloured hair.</p>

<p>His eyes were a cold blue. He was the sort of
man that women ‘rave about.’ Collins took
careful stock of the man, and then advanced with
raised hat. The girl gave a smile of recognition,
and shook hands.</p>

<p>“It is very good of you to come and meet me,”
she said. “This is Mr. Eric Sanders, Mr.
Collins.” The men shook hands and exchanged a
look not too friendly. They were antipathetical.</p>

<p>“I have brought my old nurse with me, and
John. I shall go to an hotel, of course. I
suppose our house is in the hands of the police,” and
she shuddered. “We stayed at Ackroyd’s when
we had let our house one year,” she said.</p>

<p>“A very good hotel, and quite convenient,” said
Collins.</p>

<p>“John, tell the porter to get a taxi, please,”
she said.</p>

<p>“I have brought my car,” Collins interposed,
“and if you care to come with me, the servants
can come on with the luggage.”</p>

<p>“That is very kind of you, but I will bring
Nurse, if you don’t mind.”</p>

<p>Sanders had been standing by, gloomy and
resentful.</p>

<p>Collins led the way to the car.</p>

<p>“Will you come with me, then?” said he.</p>

<p>“I should like to,” she replied. “Eric, will you
take care of Nurse?” She got into her seat, and
Sanders, with not too good a grace, helped the
old nurse into the back seat.</p>

<p>The drive was all too short. In spite of the
terrible cloud hanging over her, her youth was
strong, and she felt the relief of getting away
from Devon and her thoughts there.</p>

<p>They had tea in a private sitting room, and
Collins laid himself out to keep her mind off the
tragedy.</p>

<p>“You must come to a theatre to-night,” he
said.</p>

<p>“Oh, I couldn’t possibly,” she answered.</p>

<p>“If I may say so, I don’t agree with you. I
know what is in your mind. You don’t think it
would be right after what has happened, but if
you stay in, you will only brood over things and
make yourself miserable, and,” he added
earnestly, “I am sure your father would not have wished
you to do that. I am not asking you to forget him,
but you have had a bad ordeal to go through,
and must keep yourself going.”</p>

<p>“What do you think, Eric?” she said,
addressing Sanders, who had been silent during the
meal.</p>

<p>“Of course, you must please yourself, but I
should hardly have thought it was quite the
thing,” he said.</p>

<p>There was something in his tone which
annoyed her.</p>

<p>“Why not?” she said.</p>

<p>“Well,” he said, floundering. “I suppose it’s
a matter of taste, but in the circumstances⸺”</p>

<p>She gave a toss of her head, and turned to
Collins.</p>

<p>“Thank you; yes, I will accept your kind
invitation.”</p>

<p>“I hope you will join us, too,” said he politely
to Sanders.</p>

<p>For a moment he was about to refuse, then he
said, “Thank you, very much.”</p>

<p>“Then I will get a box for four. Of course,
Nurse will come as well.”</p>

<p>“That is very kind of you. It would be a great
treat for her. Only in that case you must both
dine here first. You know I feel very guilty in
doing this, but it will only be a very quiet
dinner.”</p>

<p>“I quite understand,” said Collins, “and I will
get a box for Gilbert and Sullivan’s. I know the
management there, and it is just what you want,
something soothing and not too gay. Now, I
know you will want to go to Leveson Square. I
will go and see that everything is all right for
you there. Come on, in about half an hour’s
time.”</p>

<p>He saw with a thrill of pleasure the look of
gratitude come to her expressive eyes.</p>

<p>After he had taken his leave, she turned to
Sanders.</p>

<p>“I think you might be a little more gracious
to Mr. Collins, he is most kind.”</p>

<p>“You seem to have made great friends with
him at short notice,” he said, churlishly.</p>

<p>She bridled up. “And if I have, I suppose I
can choose my friends.”</p>

<p>“And forget the old one for the new.”</p>

<p>“What nonsense. You are behaving like a
spoilt child. I have watched you all the time.”</p>

<p>“What do you know of this fellow, anyway?
He is only a sort of policeman. I suppose he
didn’t tell you that?”</p>

<p>“If it is any satisfaction to you, he did, and
perhaps we had better stop discussing Mr.
Collins any more.”</p>

<p>He got up and wandered round the room.</p>

<p>“I suppose I had better go,” he said.</p>

<p>Her lip curled with contempt. “You can please
yourself, but I should hardly have thought that
my oldest male friend would have deserted me
at such a time.”</p>

<p>“Forgive me. I will say no more. Of course
I will stay with you.”</p>

<p>“All right. It is time we started for Leveson
Square.”</p>

<p>“What a brute I have been,” he said. “I
ought to have thought of you.”</p>

<p>“Would you fetch a taxi?” she said.</p>

<p>Collins was at the door when they drove up.</p>

<p>He bowed slightly to Mabel, in the deferential
but not subservient manner of a courtier.</p>

<p>“Everything is ready for you,” he whispered.
“I brought your old nurse with me. I knew you
would like to have her here. She is waiting in
the bedroom.” She felt a sense of pleasure at
the thoughtfulness.</p>

<p>“I will go up,” she said.</p>

<p>The two men were left alone in the hall.</p>

<p>“I suppose you know this place well,” said
Collins, carelessly.</p>

<p>“Of course. I was private secretary to Sir
James,” said the other, stiffly.</p>

<p>Collins lit a cigarette, and offered his case.
The other could not well refuse. “Thanks,”
said he.</p>

<p>“This is a wretched business,” said Collins.</p>

<p>“It is very terrible, but of course you are used
to these crimes in your profession.”</p>

<p>“Yes,” he said solemnly, “and we get used to
all kinds of criminals,” and he looked into the
empty library.</p>

<p>“Have you any theory as to who did the
murder?” said Sanders.</p>

<p>“I never allow myself the luxury of theories,”
said Collins.</p>

<p>“Prig,” said the other under his breath.</p>

<p>“It is strange how the murderer escaped, isn’t
it?” said Collins. “I wonder if you ever heard
tell of any secret doors, or trap doors, or
anything of that sort?”</p>

<p>“Oh, really, are we back in the Middle Ages?
This is a modern, London house. Besides, by the
look of things your men have had a pretty
thorough hunt.”</p>

<p>“When did you see Sir James last?” said
Collins, lighting another cigarette from his old one.</p>

<p>“Oh, I was with him at the Home Office in the
morning of the day.”</p>

<p>“Fancy, and you little thought then that you
would never see him again alive,” said Collins
musingly.</p>

<p>The other was silent.</p>

<p>“Do you know,” continued Collins, “you
mentioned the Middle Ages. How much easier
detection was then. All you did was to parade suspects
in front of the departed, and when the right man
arrived blood gushed out from his mouth, and
you spotted a winner every time.”</p>

<p>“What a horribly morbid mind you must have,”
said Sanders with a shudder.</p>

<p>“I am glad I am not mixed up with crime.”</p>

<p>“I have not any great sense of horror of crime,
murder least of all. There are so many reasons
for that,” and he looked straight at the other
man.</p>

<p>“Miss Watson will be down soon. I hope it has
not upset her too much. You are an old friend.
Wouldn’t you like to go up and see.”</p>

<p>“No, thanks. I would rather not. But I will
knock at the door.”</p>

<p>He went up the stairs, and Collins followed
him with his eyes.</p>

<p>“I wonder if that blood would gush out,” he
said to himself.</p>

<p>Miss Watson stayed in London until the
inquest was over. This was hurried forward out
of deference to the position of the deceased. She
had to give evidence of identification.</p>

<p>There was nothing fresh in spite of the efforts
of those engaged on the case. Tremendous
excitement was aroused, not only because of the
fact that the murdered man was a Cabinet
Minister, but on account of the bizarre events which
had surrounded the mystery.</p>

<p>All efforts to trace the ownership of the
revolver had failed. Lewis’s landlady could only
state that she thought it was his, as it looked
like it. But a Webley is so common a type that
this did not count for much. The number was
an old one, and the weapon had probably passed
through many hands.</p>

<p>The police did not press their case against
any particular individual, and the jury returned
the usual verdict against some person or persons
unknown.</p>

<p>Collins had been most assiduous in his
attempts to make Miss Watson’s part as small a
one as possible, and had endeavoured to keep her
spirits up, without intruding himself. Sanders,
in spite of all his efforts, was still sulky, and
plunged into the work of going over Sir James’
papers, which fell to his lot.</p>

<p>The ordeal was over, and all those women of
Society who had crammed themselves into the
court were trying to sort themselves out again.
Opinion was about equally divided between Lewis
and a lunatic as the villain of the piece.</p>

<p>Collins sought the back room where the
witnesses had gone.</p>

<p>His face was stern. He walked directly to
Mrs. Simmons, who was sniffing in a corner.</p>

<p>“I would like to have a word with you, if I
may,” he said.</p>

<p>“Certainly, sir,” she replied.</p>

<p>“Would you kindly come into the next room,
there are too many people here?” She rose and
followed him without a word.</p>

<p>In the little side room he faced her.</p>

<p>“Mrs. Simmons, you gave evidence on oath.
You know the nature of an oath?”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, sir,” she replied, without hesitation.</p>

<p>“You swore to tell the truth, didn’t you?”</p>

<p>“Why, yes, sir, of course.”</p>

<p>“Very good. In your evidence you said that
you did not know who the man was who called on
Sir James?”</p>

<p>With all her control, a look of relief passed
rapidly over her face.</p>

<p>“Quite right, sir, I had no idea. I could not
see him. It might have been you, sir, for all I
know.”</p>

<p>“It won’t do, Mrs. Simmons. You were asked
whether anyone else had come to see Sir James
after that, and you said ‘No.’ That was a lie.”</p>

<p>If one has seen a child’s balloon touched with
a lighted cigarette, the collapse of this woman
was not more complete.</p>

<p>She seemed to shrivel up. She tried to speak,
but all she could do was to lick her lips and open
her mouth.</p>

<p>Collins waited.</p>

<p>“You had better tell me,” he said. “If I had
wanted to have this known publicly, couldn’t I
have had this out in court? Shall I tell you
who called?”</p>

<p>“Oh, no, no, sir,” she moaned, raising her hand
as though she were threatened with a blow.</p>

<p>“You know perfectly well that Mr. Eric
Sanders came, and you let him in?”</p>

<p>“Oh, sir, how do you know?” she said, with a
look of blank astonishment.</p>

<p>“The best thing for you is to tell me exactly
what did happen. Perhaps I know more than
you think.”</p>

<p>She looked at him in a frightened way.</p>

<p>“Oh, sir, he had nothing to do with the
murder, sir, I am sure he didn’t.”</p>

<p>“Tell me exactly what did occur, or must I
call the police?” he said.</p>

<p>“What happened was this, sir,” she said,
gazing round her, as if for help. “After the visitor
had gone, and I am sure I wish I knew who he
was, I was in the dining-room, as I told in court.</p>

<p>“Mr. Eric came in without so much as a knock,
he being free of the house. He seemed to be very
excited, and he says ‘I must see Sir James.’ I
says, ‘He does not want to be disturbed.’ Then
he says ‘I’ll just knock at his door and ask
him.’ ”</p>

<p>“One moment, Mrs. Simmons. Was this after
Sir James had sent the letter?”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, sir, after he had come in.”</p>

<p>“You are quite sure of that?”</p>

<p>“Quite sure.”</p>

<p>“Go on.”</p>

<p>“Mr. Eric knocked at the door, but there was
no answer. Then he knocks again, but there
wasn’t a sound. So he writes something on a
card, and slips it under the door, and says, ‘Sir
James, do you mind reading the card,’ and he
waits.</p>

<p>“There was a noise inside, as though someone
was a moving very slowly, and a voice said, ‘go
away.’ ”</p>

<p>Collins drew in a quick breath. “You are quite
certain about that?”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, sir, I was standing by the door. I
was afraid he would come out, and there would
be blows.”</p>

<p>“Why?”</p>

<p>“Because, sir, Mr. Eric and Sir James had had
a terrible set-to the night before.”</p>

<p>“Do you mean they came to blows?”</p>

<p>“Oh, no, sir, I meant a figure of speech. Only
words.”</p>

<p>“What about?”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, it isn’t my business, but I think it
was over Miss Mabel.”</p>

<p>“Go on,” said Collins.</p>

<p>“Then Mr. Eric says, ‘Won’t you see me for a
minute?’ ”</p>

<p>“Was there any answer?”</p>

<p>“Only a horrible sort of groan, so I says to
him, ‘you’d better get out of this, quick. The
master’s got a loaded revolver in there.’ I don’t
know what made me say that, but I wanted to
get rid of him.”</p>

<p>“What did he say?”</p>

<p>“He says, ‘so have I, if it comes to that.’ But
he turned and went out without another word.
Oh, sir, I hope I haven’t done wrong in telling
you.”</p>

<p>“Don’t get excited, you have done quite right,
but you must not tell anyone else, mind that.”</p>

<p>“I will, sir, and I am sure that he had nothing
to do with it, sir. That’s why I said nothing
about it.”</p>

<p>“Now, one more question, and I have done.
Think carefully before you answer. Was it Sir
James who answered from the room?”</p>

<p>All the colour fled from her face, and she
seemed on the verge of a collapse.</p>

<p>“Oh, sir, I don’t know. I have thought of
nothing else since this terrible affair. I don’t
believe it was. It was like him, but muffled and
sort of mumbling.” She was shivering now, and
on the verge of breaking down. Collins drew a
flask from his pocket and took out the stopper.</p>

<p>“Drink this. It will do you good. I have
finished now.”</p>

<p>“Thank you, sir,” she said, taking a deep drink.</p>

<p>“And you won’t tell anyone. You must keep
absolutely silent. I shall not tell unless I find it
necessary. Now, mind, not a word. You will do
infinite harm if you do.”</p>

<p>The effect of the strong drink had made her
maudlin, and she sank weeping on a chair.</p>

<p>“Oh, what would Miss Mabel say?” she said
between her sobs.</p>

<p>Collins gave one look at her, and then left the
room. He had got the information he wanted.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch08">

<h2>Chapter VIII. <br/> Enter Mr. Allery</h2>

<p>After the inquest there was nothing to keep
Miss Watson in London. A sad cortège
started from Leveson Square after dark, for, in
the circumstances, they had no wish for public
display.</p>

<p>The body of the dead statesman was being
taken to Devonshire for burial. In all the
arrangements Collins had played an important
but unobtrusive part, and now, on the departure
platform, he had quietly seen to her comfort in
the little ways a woman appreciates.</p>

<p>Papers were ready, seats booked at the dining
table, and the carriage reserved by a well-tipped
guard.</p>

<p>Eric Sanders had already gone on, as it was
necessary to go through all the dead man’s
papers, and, as private secretary, he was assisting
the police in this matter.</p>

<p>An aged and lachrymose aunt had turned up
from somewhere, and was acting chaperon.</p>

<p>The old nurse had been relegated to what the
aunt called her proper place. Collins had
completely won the heart of the old nurse with an
easy courtesy which is neither patronage nor
familiarity, and she had sworn by him ever since
he had taken them to the theatre. On that
occasion he had, with great tact, laid himself out to
amuse the old lady, while Mabel was left to her
sulky Eric, which accentuated the contrast.</p>

<p>Now he had taken as much care in seeing to
the comfort of the two old servants (for the
butler was going back with them), as with Miss
Watson herself—a fact she was quick to note
and appreciate.</p>

<p>They were standing on the platform, waiting
for the train to start, and Mabel gave him her
hand.</p>

<p>“I am most awfully grateful to you for all you
have done,” she said. “I don’t know how I should
have got on without you. This has been a very
trying time, but it would have been far worse
but for your management.” He was pleased at
the compliment.</p>

<p>“It has been a real pleasure to do what I
could, and no trouble, for I have had to be in the
thick of things, from my position.”</p>

<p>A cloud crossed her face.</p>

<p>“Yes, of course. You are trying to find the
criminal.”</p>

<p>“I am trying first to find your brother.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I hope you do. It would be so comforting
at this time if he were here.”</p>

<p>“I will let you know directly I hear anything.”</p>

<p>“Oh, but I hope you will do more than that.
You must come and see us when we are more
settled,” she added wistfully.</p>

<p>They were joined by Mr. Allery, the senior
partner of Allery &amp; Watkins, the family lawyers.
Collins and he had seen a good deal of each other
during these few days, and had grown to like
each other.</p>

<p>He took Mabel’s hand in a fatherly way.</p>

<p>“Now, you must not get down there and fret
and worry. It’s all terribly sad, but you are
young, and when you have got over the first
grief, you must rouse yourself up. There’s
nothing worse than moping.”</p>

<p>“Then the best way you can help is to come
and see me,” she said with a smile, “and bring
Mr. Collins with you. You are both golfers, and
there are several excellent links near us.”</p>

<p>“I shall be delighted,” said the lawyer. “I
need a change. Only you must remind me, or I
shall never come,” and he laughed in a genial,
full-blooded way.</p>

<p>He had a charming, old-world courtesy, and
what in doctors is called a good bedside manner.</p>

<p>The train moved off, leaving the two men
standing on the platform.</p>

<p>“Poor girl,” said Allery. “I have known her
since she was a baby. It’s a sad blow to her, but,
between ourselves, it may be a good thing. Sir
James was a fine man, but he was very selfish
with her. She was absolutely tied up with him,
and could go nowhere. He warned off all possible
suitors, and made her live the life of a nun.”</p>

<p>“I gather that Sanders rather bit his fingers
there.” Allery looked at him shrewdly.</p>

<p>“You haven’t taken long to find that out,” he
said. “Yes, I believe he did. He is an able
young fellow, of good family, and in every way
desirable, but for some reason Sir James would
not hear of an engagement. Of course, it was
very awkward, as he was his private secretary,
and Sir James was too fair minded a man to get
rid of him for domestic reasons which would have
ruined his prospects. But it couldn’t have gone
on. He actually talked to me about altering his
will if Mabel did not give Eric up.”</p>

<p>Collins looked interested.</p>

<p>“We can’t stand talking here. Let me give you
a lift in my car. Where can I take you?”</p>

<p>“That’s most kind of you. I have an hour
before my train goes, so I shall just go to my
club. You’d better come in for a few minutes.”</p>

<p>In the club smoking room, after a general talk,
Collins gently led the conversation back to the
subject about which he wanted information.</p>

<p>“You knew young Watson, I suppose?” The
lawyer’s face hardened.</p>

<p>“Yes,” he said shortly, “I knew him. A
wastrel.”</p>

<p>“I rather gathered,” said Collins, “that he was
just a somewhat wild youth, who went the pace
at Oxford.”</p>

<p>“I am afraid it did not stop at that,” said the
other, and closed his mouth in a way that
indicated he did not wish to continue. Collins saw
it, and asked no more.</p>

<p>Allery, however, volunteered one bit of
information.</p>

<p>“Sir James made a curious will. It will be
proved soon, and so there is no particular secret.
If his son was found, and was willing to settle
down in Devonshire, he was to have a half share
after certain small legacies had been paid. If
not, the whole was to go to Mabel. She gets half
in any case. It was left to me to decide whether
he was fulfilling the conditions. That’ll be a nice
task.”</p>

<p>“Supposing we can’t find him.”</p>

<p>“Then Mabel takes her half and the interest
on the other, which remains in trust, until it is
decided that he is dead. The discretion rests
with me.”</p>

<p>“A very reasonable arrangement,” said
Collins.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch09">

<h2>Chapter IX. <br/> A Confession</h2>

<p>Sinclair and Boyce were sitting in the
former’s room, waiting for Collins.</p>

<p>“I wonder how he will like this?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“Not at all,” said the other, making a face.
“He is so fond of a problem that he dislikes a
simple solution to anything.”</p>

<p>He shuffled uncomfortably. He did not
altogether like it, himself. Collins entered and
greeted the others.</p>

<p>“Well?” he said. “I got your message.”</p>

<p>Boyce took his cigar from his mouth.</p>

<p>“We have got a confession of the murder of
Sir James.” If he expected Collins to show any
feeling, he was disappointed.</p>

<p>“Who is it?” he said, quietly seating
himself.</p>

<p>“A man called Jackson. He came into the
Vine Street police station late last night and
said he wished to give himself up for the
murder.”</p>

<p>“Of course,” said Collins contemptuously, “we
shall have plenty of them.”</p>

<p>“Wait a moment. This man is well known to
the police. He has been in an asylum for years,
but unfortunately his people got him certified
sane, and had him out. He had homicidal
tendencies. He has made a complete statement.”</p>

<p>“A statement from a lunatic. Really, Boyce.”</p>

<p>“Well, listen to this, then,” said Boyce, and
spread a document out on the desk.</p>

<p>He began to read:</p>

<blockquote class="document"><div>

<p>“I, John Henry Jackson, being of sound mind,
and having been warned by the police, declare
the following statement to be a true account of
what I have done. On the afternoon of the ⸻,
I killed that dog, Sir James Watson, because he
is not fit to live. He will not hear the cry of
the prisoner or the oppressed, but his heart has
been hardened like Pharoah. I went to his house
in Leveson Square, which I had been watching
for an opportunity, and he opened the door to
me. He was delivered into my hands, but I
would not slay him then. I knew that the time
had come, so I wrote to the Central News Agency,
with whom I have often had correspondence, and
told them of his death. I had called at Scotland
Yard some days before and seen Superintendent
Sinclair.” Boyce paused, and Sinclair looked up
with a start.</p>

<p>“While he was not looking, I took some of his
paper, and a letter he had signed, and so I wrote
on the paper to show that it was not murder.
Sir James came out and posted a letter, and I
nearly killed him then, but the time had not
come, so I followed him into the house, and shot
him. It is a good deed and I do not mind
having done it.</p>

<p class="endsignature"><i>(Signed)</i> J. H. Jackson.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>“Well, what do you make of that?”</p>

<p>Sinclair and Collins looked up, and their eyes
met.</p>

<p>“Absolute rubbish,” said Collins, “the man is
obviously a lunatic.”</p>

<p>“What about the reference to you?” said Boyce
to Sinclair.</p>

<p>“I do remember a wild man coming here with
some grievance. I don’t know how he got in
at all. Lewis let him in, but I have no
recollection of him taking any letter of mine.”</p>

<p>“Still, he may have done,” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“Of course,” said the other. “There is always
a tray full of type-written letters of no great
importance, waiting to go out. They would not be
registered till they had been collected and one
might have gone. It’s possible.”</p>

<p>“The whole thing is preposterous. What about
the telephone messages that Sinclair and I had?”
said Collins.</p>

<p>“Oh, he says he sent them from a Call Office.”</p>

<p>Collins laughed. “This is all your doing,
Boyce. I knew how it would be. You let the
whole story out to the papers, and this lunatic
has been turning it over in his mind till he
really believes he has done it. It’s quite a
common phase. I wonder you take the trouble to go
into the matter.”</p>

<p>“Wait a moment. You always think no one
can be right but yourself. You have not heard
all. A policeman has identified him. He saw him
several times hanging about Leveson Square.
And he has been further examined and his story
hangs together. I don’t think there is any doubt
that we have got the right man.”</p>

<p>“I am perfectly sure you haven’t,” said
Collins.</p>

<p>Boyce turned to him. “Of course it will be a
disappointment to you. I know you always like
something out of the way, with mystery and
special features. What do you think, Sinclair?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know, sir, I don’t know what to say.
I don’t somehow think he is our man.”</p>

<p>“I am quite sure he is; he’s got to be. You
understand. And I expect loyal support from
my Department,” said Boyce, with decision.</p>

<p>“It won’t do, Boyce, old fellow,” said Collins.</p>

<p>“What do you mean?”</p>

<p>“I’ll tell you. Have you ever seen the Mikado?
If so you may remember a song beginning, ‘As
some day it may happen that a victim must
be found.’ ”</p>

<p>“I am afraid I don’t follow you,” said the other
coldly.</p>

<p>“Between us three there is no need for bluff.
You are being worried by all kinds of people to
solve the problem. You see that your
professional reputation is at stake and that much hangs
on it. And you see here a good chance of finding
a victim, who will not suffer any hardship in any
case, as he obviously ought to be under lock and
key.</p>

<p>“It is the Stenie Morrison case over again,
only here you will not have to have an innocent
man tried, because this man will not be able to
plead. It will all work out finely. This man
will go to Broadmoor, where he will be quite
happy, and there will be much praise for the
smart Commissioner.”</p>

<p>Boyce flushed scarlet. “You mean I should
fake up a charge against a man I knew was not
guilty,” he said.</p>

<p>Collins shrugged his shoulders. “I have
known it done,” he said, and turned to Sinclair.
“Well, here ends the wonderful mystery of
Leveson Square. There will be no difficulty in
getting a case. I have not been at the Bar for
nothing. There will be no defence, because there
will be no trial. Personally, I could drive a
horse and cart through the whole thing. So
could you. But it will be beautifully
stage-managed.”</p>

<p>Boyce rose in anger. “I suppose because you
are a free-lance you think you can say what you
like, unless you are trying to make a joke in
rather doubtful taste. I do not see that any
useful purpose would be served by continuing this
discussion,” and he went out.</p>

<p>The other two looked at each other. Collins
burst out laughing.</p>

<p>“Cheer up,” he said, “you look as if you had
just missed backing the winner.”</p>

<p>“That’s just what I have done,” said Sinclair
gloomily. “It’s all right for you, but I have
to do what I am told. I know this is all wrong.”</p>

<p>“Do you? So do I,” said Collins quietly.</p>

<p>The other looked up quickly. “You are very
certain.”</p>

<p>“Exactly. And so are you.” They both stared
hard at each other for a moment. “I wonder
what you have got hold of?” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“That’s just what I was wondering,” said
Collins.</p>

<p>“There’s one thing. This will put the real man
right off. He will think he’s safe and may
return,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Return? What do you mean?”</p>

<p>“Oh, nothing.”</p>

<p>A clerk entered, and laid an early edition of
the “Evening Rag” on the table. Sinclair picked
it up.</p>

<p>“Read that,” he said, indignantly.</p>

<p>Across the page was printed:</p>

<blockquote class="centered"><div>
  ‘MURDER OF THE HOME SECRETARY,’<br/>
  ‘SUSPECT ARRESTED,’<br/>
  ‘MAKES FULL CONFESSION.’
</div></blockquote>

<p>There followed an account of how that brilliant
Civil Servant, F. D. Boyce, Commissioner of
Police, after devoting his nights and days to the
problem, had at last effected the arrest of a
violent lunatic who had made a full confession of
the dastardly crime.</p>

<p>There followed a paragraph in praise of their
worthy official, and in self-laudation of the Press
generally, whose co-operation had been so
effectual.</p>

<p>Collins put it down with a smile.</p>

<p>“So that’s that,” he said. “I wash my hands
of the case.”</p>

<p>On his way back to his flat he stopped at a
Post Office, and sent off a wire. “Delighted to
accept your kind invitation. Will come
tomorrow,” and addressed it to “Miss Watson, The
Vale, Holbrook.”</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch10">

<h2>Chapter X. <br/> The Portrait</h2>

<p>A surprise awaited Collins on his arrival at
Wilton-on-Sea. Eric Sanders was on the
platform, and came forward with a pleasant
smile. He was a changed being. The sulky
petulance was gone, and he seemed like a man
from whom a load of care has been removed.
His manner was friendly without being effusive.</p>

<p>Collins surveyed him keenly.</p>

<p>He was too used to studying human nature not
to notice the change, and too clever to show that
he saw it.</p>

<p>They drove to the Vale among the autumn
trees and over the hills from whence
magnificent views stretched out beneath them. Eric
opened the conversation.</p>

<p>“You people have done a smart bit of work
capturing the murderer of Sir James so quickly,”
he said. “The papers were full of it this
morning.”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Collins, dryly. “I read them on
the way down.”</p>

<p>“He seems to be a desperate ruffian. I didn’t
quite make out how it was he was actually
caught.”</p>

<p>“He wasn’t,” said Collins, “he gave himself
up.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I see. It was not clear in the account,”
he looked at Collins doubtfully wondering how
far it was right to ask him questions without
breach of etiquette.</p>

<p>“This is a wonderful piece of country,” said
Collins. “It’s one of the finest views I know
just before we go down again into the valley.
It’s like the view from the Delectable
Mountains.”</p>

<p>“You’ve read the ‘Pilgrim’s Progress’?” said
the other in surprise.</p>

<p>Collins gave a laugh. “Oh, I don’t spend all
my time in bones and blood, though problems do
interest me.”</p>

<p>At the risk of courting a snub Eric said, “I
expect you are sorry this one is over so quickly?”</p>

<p>“Oh, there will be plenty more,” said he lightly.</p>

<p>On their arrival Mabel met them at the door
and greeted Collins warmly—a trifle too 
warmly—there was just a touch of over effusiveness,
which his quick eye noticed.</p>

<p>“We’re quite a party,” she said. “It is really
too big so shortly after⸺” she hesitated:
“while we are in mourning. Mr. Allery is here,
with his wife and daughter.”</p>

<p>When they sat down to dinner that night there
was indeed an atmosphere of quiet enjoyment far
removed from the horror of the past days. Mr.
Allery had had a word with Collins.</p>

<p>“I came as a duty. I was so much afraid that
the poor little girl would mope. It’s no earthly
good crying over spilt milk. She has all her life
before her. Besides,” he added with a smile, “I
think her old aunt is far from an ideal chaperon.
My wife is used to all occasions.”</p>

<p>“You mean?”</p>

<p>“You’ll see, my boy,” said the old lawyer with
a chuckle, “The course of true love is running
smoother.”</p>

<p>Then the ladies had come in.</p>

<p>The dinner was a merry one; Allery had a fund
of humour culled from his long experience, and
he found an able supporter in Collins. Sanders
was no fool, and now that he was absolutely
happy he took his part. He had taken Miss
Allery in, but Collins noted that he was sitting
next to Mabel. Collins had taken in the Aunt,
who was only a cousin of Sir James. He was
sitting with his back to the windows from which
the setting sun still shone into the room, for they
had dined early. In front of him was a great
fire-place, and over the mantel was a large
portrait of Sir James in court dress.</p>

<p>“Fancy,” Sanders was saying, “I find Mr.
Collins spends his spare time reading the ‘Pilgrim’s
Progress.’ ”</p>

<p>“And very good taste, too,” said Allery. “It
contains some of the most glorious pieces of
English ever written.</p>

<p>“Not one of our modern writers can touch it.”</p>

<p>It was getting dark in the room.</p>

<p>“I think,” said the aunt, “we might have a
light, my dear?”</p>

<p>“Certainly,” said Mabel. “John, turn on the
electric light.”</p>

<p>At that moment a last ray, almost blood-red,
came from the dying sun through the window,
and shone full on the portrait over the fire-place.
Collins was idly looking at it, when his face
suddenly became rigid and fixed. An intent look
came into his eyes, and he stared hard at the
portrait. Then the brilliant light came on. At
that moment he felt rather than saw that Mabel
was watching him. He turned to her and she
looked down in confusion, and a red pervaded
her face. They both recovered and their eyes
met. He read in them a certain uneasiness or
dread.</p>

<p>Instantly he composed his features and said,
“That’s better, but the sunset was very
beautiful.”</p>

<p>“We’ve missed the first News bulletin,” said
Allery, “but we must get the second. I always
feel lost in the country when there’s no wireless.
Miss Watson has a splendid receiving set.”</p>

<p>While conversation was general Collins leant
over to Allery.</p>

<p>“Better not say too much about the news,” he
said. “There will be something about the
murder, certain to be, and it may distress her.”</p>

<p>“Perhaps you are right, but as a matter of
fact, she has been much more cheerful since she
heard that they had got the man.”</p>

<p>The receiving set was in the old oak-pannelled
hall in a neat cabinet. The company
foregathered here at ten o’clock for the news. Eric
was the operator. After the hundred and fortieth
chess move between two Scotsmen, and the usual
dismal forecast of the weather, an account was
given of the preliminary examination of Jackson,
who was being kept under observation by Home
Office doctors. Two facts emerged, that the
Home Office was satisfied in a guarded way that
he was the man, with plenty of the cautious word
‘alleged,’ and that he was hopelessly mad.
Collins smiled as he listened. He had seated
himself on a cushion in the shadow where he could
watch Mabel’s expressive face. He saw a look of
relief, and something more, a puzzled look on her
face.</p>

<p>After the news an announcement was
broadcasted, as had been done for the past few days,
asking for information as to the whereabouts of
Ronald, now Sir Ronald Watson, last heard of
at Monte Video, etc.</p>

<p>As the loud speaker announced this, Collins
saw a swift glance pass between Mabel and
Allery.</p>

<p>When the Savoy bands were in full blast,
Sanders and Allery departed to finish an
interrupted game of billiards. The four ladies
continued a game of bridge. Collins had joined with
neither party, but watched each in turn. When
Mabel was “dummy” she came across to him. “I
wish you were not out of things like this,” she
said, “I feel I am not doing my duty as hostess.”</p>

<p>“Not a bit of it,” he replied. “I am enjoying
myself.”</p>

<p>“I suppose you are feeling more at rest now
that this horrible affair has been cleared up?”</p>

<p>“Of course it ends the matter as far as I am
concerned—for the present,” he said. “And
you?”</p>

<p>“Oh, I told you,” she said. “I would much
rather it turned out to be a man who was not
responsible. There will be nothing done to him,
I suppose?”</p>

<p>“He will be confined to Broadmoor for life,
now. He has been there before, you know. They
won’t let him out again.”</p>

<p>“How sad,” she said; “but it’s better than a
man being hanged, isn’t it?”</p>

<p>“If he’s guilty,” said Collins.</p>

<p>“Of course they will have to prove their case,
won’t they?” she said.</p>

<p>He gave a scornful laugh. “Oh, they will do
that all right,” he said.</p>

<p>“Do you mean whether he is guilty or not?
But that is too dreadful.”</p>

<p>“If a man once gets into the clutches of the
Law it doesn’t matter much whether he’s guilty
or not. He’s about as much chance as a fly in a
spider’s net.”</p>

<p>“What an awful thing. But you were a
barrister once yourself?”</p>

<p>“That’s why I say that,” he answered with
meaning.</p>

<p>“But we must not keep on talking about this,
it will make you morbid.”</p>

<p>“Come on, Mabel, we are waiting for you,”
came from the table.</p>

<p>Collins strolled out into the garden where a
bright moon was shining. What should he do?
Let things slide altogether, and the Law take
its course? That was best, but a curious streak
of vanity and desire for mystery goaded him on
to fresh research. There were other problems
beside the main plot which called for solution.</p>

<p>There was the curious disappearance of Lewis.
And what about Eric Sanders? Besides he
grudged an easy triumph for the oily Boyce. He
would like to upset his apple-cart.</p>

<p>The scent of the flowers and a cool breeze were
delightful after London. He wandered round
the house like a nocturnal cat, and came to the
dining-room window. He stopped dead. Yes;
he would have another look, while the others
were busy.</p>

<p>Returning to the house he went to the
dining-room and turned on the electric light. Sir James
was staring down at him from over the
mantelpiece. He lit a cigarette and sat on the edge of the
table, gazing keenly at the portrait. He sat there
motionless, in thought. He had an unusually
keen sense and he felt, rather than saw, that
someone had come into the room. He made no
sign. A quiet voice at his elbow said, “It’s a
very good likeness, and cleverly painted, isn’t
it?” He turned without haste. Allery was
standing beside him with an inscrutable smile on
his face.</p>

<p>“I came to look for you as we have finished,
and I thought you might like a nightcap before
turning in.”</p>

<p>“Thanks, I will come along,” said Collins. “I
never saw Sir James to speak to. He had a
remarkable face. A strange mixture of
hardness and sympathy. The mouth is hard as a
rock, but the eyes are sympathetic.”</p>

<p>“You are a student of these things, of course,”
said the lawyer. “But you are quite right. He
was a contradiction, but his intellect always
ruled his emotions.”</p>

<p>“Was his son anything like him?”</p>

<p>“In character, yes; in face he was too young to
say. He was undeveloped.”</p>

<p>Collins turned out the light and they went
to join the others.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch11">

<h2>Chapter XI. <br/> An Apparition</h2>

<p>The next three days passed outwardly in the
usual enjoyments of a country house-party.
They golfed and motored and played tennis.
Behind the scenes many things were happening.</p>

<p>It was obvious to anyone that Eric Sanders
and Mabel had come to an understanding, though
a definite engagement so soon after the death of
Sir James was repugnant to her.</p>

<p>On the other hand, so long as she had had to
fight a battle with her father on behalf of Eric,
she had been passionately devoted to him; but
now that all opposition had ceased at the gates
of the vault, and things had become easy, she
almost resented the air of ownership with which
Eric treated her. Woman-like she did not like
being regarded as being cheaply won. She
turned to Collins and was much in his company
to show her lover that he had not a monopoly of
her society.</p>

<p>Here was ground ready for sowing. He had
gone through life with a cynical view of women,
partly because he had come in contact with the
sordid side of human nature, and partly because
he had led a lonely life.</p>

<p>From the first moment that he had seen
Mabel his interest had been aroused, and that
interest was growing to something more
intimate. She either did not or would not see,
and the situation was soon acute. She was
attracted to him by the very distaste for his
profession, for she had inherited much of her father’s
contradiction in character.</p>

<p>His invitation had been indefinite, and with
all the party he was very popular. He carefully
refrained from referring to the subject of the
murder, and tried to lead the conversation away
from it. And so the age-long battle began.</p>

<p>An excursion had been arranged to the
Cheddar Gorge and Caves, and as they passed down
that wonderful panorama of riven rocks,
unsurpassed in England, the grandeur of the scene
drew them together. Each had a vein of savagery
in their natures to which the wild aspect of the
scenery appealed. Collins was driving the car,
and Mabel had taken her place with him.</p>

<p>“Stop a moment here,” she whispered. “This
is wonderful.”</p>

<p>Eric was sitting morosely in the back.</p>

<p>Far up, the trees growing on the edge of the
precipice looked like the toy trees of a Japanese
garden, and the fantastic rocks formed castles
of fairy legend. The twisted road curved steeply
down into the depths.</p>

<p>“I would like to come here by moonlight,”
she said. “It would be wonderful.”</p>

<p>“Why not have a picnic here, then?” he
answered. “It is quite warm still.”</p>

<p>“We will,” she said gaily. “Come on, or the
others will get restive. My aunt sees nothing in
these rocks—in fact, she is rather frightened.”
They descended to the caves no less wonderful.</p>

<p>There were no tourists at that time so they
made a party by themselves and went in with
a guide.</p>

<p>Far in the depths of “Solomon’s Temple” with
its amazing stalactites lit by electric light, they
saw the entrance of a dark cave.</p>

<p>The guide was speaking: “That cave has been
explored for over two miles, but is not open to
the public. We do not know where it ends.
There must be exits somewhere, or the air would
not keep so fresh.”</p>

<p>“What a place for a criminal to hide from
justice,” said Collins. “If one of our friends
could make his way from Dartmoor here, he
might stay for months with an accomplice to
bring him food.”</p>

<p>“Only in the summer,” said the guide; “the
caves are flooded in the winter.”</p>

<p>Mabel shivered.</p>

<p>“How cold and damp it would be,” she said,
“and fancy a storm coming on and the water
dashing down on one from above.”</p>

<p>“Really, Mabel,” said Sanders, “you are
getting very morbid, let’s get out and have some
lunch.”</p>

<p>She turned on him.</p>

<p>“How unromantic you are. I would like to
buy this place, and turn it into a sort of Monte
Christo’s cave.”</p>

<p>“And get chronic rheumatism,” said Allery,
laughing.</p>

<p>“Well, I must give way to the craving for
lunch,” she said, and led the way out.</p>

<p>When they had got back in the afternoon,
Mabel’s old nurse met them with a startling
announcement. Old John, the butler, had seen
a ghost, and was prostrated with terror.</p>

<p>“Nonsense,” said Collins, “ghosts don’t come
in the day time, it’s against all the rules of the
game. Let’s have him up and question him.”</p>

<p>Mabel did not take it quite so lightly. “Poor
old man,” she said, “he has been brooding on my
father’s death, and I expect he has imagined
things.”</p>

<p>“Better ask for the cellar key,” said Sanders.</p>

<p>Mabel turned on him, angrily. “That’s a mean
thing to say. John has been with us now for
twenty-five years and I have never known him
the worse for drink.”</p>

<p>Sanders hastily apologised.</p>

<p>Allery intervened. “Perhaps I had better see
him, and talk to him.”</p>

<p>“If I may suggest it,” said Collins, “why not
just send for him in the ordinary way, and let
him tell his story? These old family servants
are entitled to being treated to respect.”</p>

<p>Mabel gave him a grateful look. Without
waiting for an answer, Collins rang the bell.
It was answered by John himself.</p>

<p>He was looking white and scared, but made no
remark.</p>

<p>After giving some trivial order, Mabel said
in a casual way:</p>

<p>“I hear you have had an unpleasant experience,
John. Would you care to tell us about it?”</p>

<p>The old man was dying to do so, and plunged
into his story at once.</p>

<p>“Thank you, Miss Mabel, it has upset me
somewhat, but I am sorry I mentioned it. While
you were away I had occasion to go into the
dining-room to fetch some silver. When I opened
the door there was Sir James standing on the
hearth-rug as plain as life.”</p>

<p>“How was he dressed?” said Collins, quickly.</p>

<p>“He was in court dress, with a sword on, and
he was holding his hat in his hand.”</p>

<p>Sanders burst out laughing.</p>

<p>“Exactly, and I suppose the picture frame was
empty,” he looked round in surprise. No one
else had laughed.</p>

<p>“I was too frightened to look, sir,” he said.</p>

<p>“What happened then?” said Collins in a
soothing tone.</p>

<p>“I don’t quite know, sir, I think I must have
turned faint. I believe he turned and looked at
me, and when I looked again he was gone.”</p>

<p>“But why were you so frightened?” said
Collins.</p>

<p>“It was a warning, sir, I am sure of that. He
came to tell me my time is up. Well, I suppose
we all have to go sometime, and I have tried to
do my duty.”</p>

<p>Collins cast a quick glance round the room.
Sanders was frankly sceptical. Mrs. Allery and
her daughter were looking scared. The Aunt was
not there. Mabel was dead white, and her eyes
nearly closed; but Collins saw one quick look
pass between her and Allery, though the face of
the old lawyer was inscrutable.</p>

<p>There was a silence in the room.</p>

<p>Collins went to the old servant with a quick
movement and took his hand.</p>

<p>“Now listen to me, John. I will tell you
exactly what happened. You have been allowing
yourself to brood over your old master’s death,
and it has got on your nerves. You were
probably thinking of him because the house was quiet,
and when you came into the dining-room, the
sun was shining right on to the portrait of Sir
James, and you imagined he was standing on the
rug. It is really quite a common thing. It’s what
we call hallucination. You must not let it worry
you. It’s not a warning or anything like that,
and you must not think any more of it.”</p>

<p>He spoke with such conviction that the old
man was greatly relieved.</p>

<p>But Collins had gone to the old man for
another reason. John was standing with his
back to a looking-glass, and Collins could see
the room. He saw two things, a look of intense
annoyance on the face of Sanders, and an
expression on Mabel’s face in which gratitude was
mixed with relief.</p>

<p>“Mr. Collins is right,” she said. “That is the
explanation. I am sure there is nothing else
in it. Now don’t worry any more about it.”</p>

<p>“Thank you, sir, thank you, Miss Mabel, it has
relieved me a lot,” and the old man went out.</p>

<p>“Well done, Collins,” said Allery, “you have
disposed of the ghost in quick time. I hope the
old fellow will forget all about it.”</p>

<p>Collins laughed and helped himself to a
cigarette from a silver box, but he watched the other.
Allery drew a handkerchief from his pocket, and
furtively wiped his forehead.</p>

<p>The company drifted off to various interests.
Sanders and Mabel found themselves alone for
a moment.</p>

<p>“I think I will go to Town to-morrow, if you
don’t mind,” he said.</p>

<p>“Why should you go?” she said.</p>

<p>“Well, I seem to be always putting my foot
into it somehow, and I don’t think I am wanted
here,” he added petulantly.</p>

<p>She stiffened. “You must please yourself. I
hope you don’t find it very boring here?”</p>

<p>“You know I don’t, Mabel, but you seem to
have changed towards me. You are always
trying to snub me in front of Collins, and you treat
me almost as a stranger. Why can’t we announce
our engagement, and then we should know where
we stand?”</p>

<p>She flushed. “Really, Eric, you sometimes
behave like a spoilt child. You know my
reasons. It is too soon after my father’s death,
especially as he disapproved, and I would like to
wait till my brother comes back.”</p>

<p>“But he may be dead, and we may have to wait
for years. He has been advertised enough for,
and if a man will not come to take up a title and
position, there must be something wrong.”</p>

<p>“What do you mean?” she said, angrily.</p>

<p>“Oh, I don’t mean anything dishonourable, but
something to prevent him coming. He may be
out of touch of civilisation,” he said, lamely.</p>

<p>“Very well,” she said, “then I will go further.
I will not become engaged until my brother
comes back. I am certain he is not dead.”</p>

<p>“That means, I suppose, you have ceased to
care for me?”</p>

<p>“It means nothing of the sort and you know
it. If I did not care for you, should I have stuck
to you against my father’s wishes?”</p>

<p>“Why don’t you say that you will marry the
man who finds your brother?” he said, bitterly.</p>

<p>“Eric, you go too far,” and she threw up her
head.</p>

<p>“I go too far! Well, Mabel, since you have
said that, I will tell you I think it is you to whom
that would apply. You are ‘carrying on’—there
is no other phrase for it, vulgar as it is—with
that fellow Collins. You are always with him,
and I can see by the way he looks at you that he
is getting too fond of you. You have only known
him for a short time.”</p>

<p>“That’s enough,” she interrupted. “You had
better say no more or we shall come to a real
quarrel. I think you better go as you have
suggested, and you can think things over. I am
going to see how my aunt is,” and she went out
without another word.</p>

<p>“Curse the fellow,” said Sanders. “What does
he mean by foisting himself here, and staying on.
He’s trying to cut me out with his damnable
polite manners. And she’s everything in the
world to me.”</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch12">

<h2>Chapter XII. <br/> What Happened in the Night</h2>

<p>The incident of the day had cast a gloom
over the party.</p>

<p>Mabel’s aunt had been in bed all the day,
with one of her sick headaches. Collins was
down before the others, and had a word with old
John. The old servant was devoted to him.</p>

<p>“I hope you got over your scare,” said he.</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, thank you, sir, but it frightened me
at the time. But you were probably right. I
have been thinking about the master a lot lately.”</p>

<p>“I have often come across cases like that,” said
Collins. “Now I suppose you came in quite
quietly, without making any noise?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, as the family were out I was
wearing carpet slippers, as I suffer with my feet a
good deal, and the door was only ajar.”</p>

<p>They were standing in the dining-room.</p>

<p>Collins walked to the fire-place.</p>

<p>“And you thought you saw Sir James standing
here,” he said, but he took in a breath. With an
effort he controlled his voice.</p>

<p>“Don’t let me stop your work,” he said.</p>

<p>“Thank you, sir,” said the other, hurrying to
complete his preparations.</p>

<p>Collins stooped quickly.</p>

<p>The impression of two feet was plainly visible
on the thick rug. No one had been in the room
since the morning, as they had all been out for
lunch. Hastily Collins walked up and down the
rug two or three times, sliding his feet over the
soft pile.</p>

<p>Then he glanced up at the portrait.</p>

<p>“I wonder,” he said.</p>

<p>Dinner was a dreary performance. Even
Collins was preoccupied. The first news bulletin
had told them that Jackson had been declared
by the doctors unfit to plead. It remained to
be seen whether there was sufficient evidence to
convict him as the murderer.</p>

<p>“How is your aunt?” said Allery, to make
conversation.</p>

<p>“Oh, she is not very bad. She takes to her
bed at intervals.”</p>

<p>“Nothing serious, I hope?” said Mrs. Allery.</p>

<p>“Only nerves.”</p>

<p>“What a blessing she did not hear about the
ghost,” said Sanders.</p>

<p>“I think the less said about that the better,”
said Allery.</p>

<p>“I quite agree,” said Collins with meaning.
“Once these things get about they get
exaggerated, and you will have the psychical research
people offering to investigate, which would never
do,” and as he said this he glanced at Allery.</p>

<p>“No,” said he without a flicker of the eyelid,
“we don’t want this to get about at this time.”</p>

<p>“Cunning old ruffian,” said Collins to himself.</p>

<p>There was an awkward silence. John had come
into the room.</p>

<p>After dinner Collins seized an opportunity
when his hostess was alone for a moment. “May
I have a word with you?” he said.</p>

<p>Mabel felt almost inclined to make an excuse,
but braced herself.</p>

<p>“Certainly,” she said. “Is it anything
private?”</p>

<p>“Not at all,” he said, with a smile. “Only that
I shall be leaving you to-morrow. I must return
to Town, and I wanted to thank you for a very
delightful visit.”</p>

<p>“How provoking,” she said. “Mr. Sanders is
also going. It is a break-up of the party, and I
was enjoying it so much.”</p>

<p>In spite of the words Collins noted an
insincerity which was foreign to her nature.</p>

<p>“I must get back to my work,” he said.</p>

<p>“Not about—my father? You have finished
with that, haven’t you?”</p>

<p>“The matter has been taken out of my hands,”
he answered.</p>

<p>“When all this has passed over, you must come
and see us again. You have been very good and
helpful.”</p>

<p>“Miss Watson, you will forgive me saying a
thing I have perhaps no right to say, but I
rather fancy Mr. Sanders does not care for my
presence here.”</p>

<p>“Surely you are mistaken. Why should he not
like you? I thought you got on very well
together.”</p>

<p>“It won’t do, Miss Watson, you know
differently. And I expect you can guess the reason.
So I had better go.”</p>

<p>This was said with such a charm of manner
that it disarmed her from the haughty tone she
would have assumed.</p>

<p>“Well, I am very sorry. But perhaps you two
will get to know each other better.”</p>

<p>“Perhaps we shall,” he muttered under his
breath.</p>

<p>Allery entered. “Oh, Mr. Allery,” said Mabel,
“here’s Mr. Collins going off to-morrow. This will
mean the break-up of our party.”</p>

<p>“Well, I am afraid we shall have to go too,
very soon. My business will not wait, you
know.”</p>

<p>“Oh, you must not go,” she said, with a look of
terror coming into her eyes.</p>

<p>Allery laughed. “I dare say we can manage
another day or two,” he said.</p>

<p>When Sanders heard that Collins was going
the next day, he was both relieved and angry.</p>

<p>“Just my luck,” he thought, “if I had kept
quiet, I need not have gone myself.”</p>

<p>Collins paced his room restlessly. Things were
taking shape in his mind. Something was going
on which his keen intellect could not explain,
but which gave rise to wild conjecture.</p>

<p>He was fully dressed, but had a pair of
slippers on. He would know the truth that night
somehow.</p>

<p>The wind had got up, and was howling round
the old house, making the timbers creak and
the windows shake, till it died down to a
moaning sound.</p>

<p>Several times he went carefully on to the
landing and listened.</p>

<p>It was an ideal night for ghosts to walk.</p>

<p>He would piece the puzzle together. There
was Jackson, the lunatic. He knew he was not
the murderer, though the police would certainly
make out a case against him. Very well. Then
there was the strange disappearance of Lewis,
on which Sinclair was basing a case until his
official position compelled silence.</p>

<p>Then there was his own piece of evidence which
was closing in. There was something else.</p>

<p>When he and Sinclair had discussed the
matter in his flat, the latter had taken out the
statement of Mrs. Simmons from his pocket book.
He had done more. There had slipped on the
floor a letter. Collins’ keen eyes had seen the
signature ‘James Watson’ and the date. Under
pretence of reading the statement he had picked
up the letter and rapidly read it. So Sinclair
had kept this from him, for some reason. What
was he afraid of? Did he know more about the
murder than he cared to own? There was
nothing but his word that he had been in the
office on the fateful afternoon. What a lark if
the sober Sinclair—but he broke off suddenly.
His quick ear had caught something that sounded
in the house in spite of the wind, a stealthy step.
He moved noiselessly to the landing.</p>

<p>There was a stirring in the house, as the wind
increased in volume, but the other sound was
quite distinct.</p>

<p>Very quietly Collins closed the door, and went
to the window. Outside, the old ivy came round,
but Collins preferred the safety of a rope. Even
this would have been no easy work for a man
who was not in condition. He hung for one
moment turning round in the air as the wind
caught him.</p>

<p>Once on the ground he made his way
cautiously round the house till he arrived at the
dining-room window. Here he paused. A wild
gust of wind, with a wisp of rain in it, caught
him, as he stood listening. Not a sound was
heard from within, and no light was showing.</p>

<p>Was it a fool’s errand after all? The whole
house was dead still. Collins felt his way round
the corner. By the old, oak door he paused. All
was dark, but a sort of ghostly radiance was
shining on an ancient elm.</p>

<p>He stepped back from the house, and presently
saw, high up in the gabled roof, a beam of light
was shining from a slit in a shutter or a
badly-fitting blind. Probably some servant who could
not sleep, or was frightened at the weather.</p>

<p>Cold and wet he returned to beneath his
window, and with the practised skill of an athlete
hauled himself up.</p>

<p>He stood in thought. Unless he had made a
mistake things were happening in this house
which were, to say the least, interesting. He
opened the door, and slid down the bannisters
without noise. Once in the hall he waited,
holding his breath. The dining-room door was open,
and, faint as it was, he caught the sound of a
living thing breathing.</p>

<p>Like a cat he stole across the intervening
space, and carefully put his hand round the edge
of the doorway. Inch by inch the fingers crept
till they touched the switch. A flood of light
illuminated the room, and showed a man
standing on the hearth-rug, rigid. It was Eric
Sanders. In his hand was a revolver. For a moment
the two men gazed at each other without a word.
A look of hate was on the face of Sanders.</p>

<p>“So,” he said, “it was you. I thought I could
not be mistaken. You foul brute, you’re not fit
to live,” and he raised his pistol.</p>

<p>“You’re very free with your shooter,” said
Collins coolly. “May I ask for an explanation?”</p>

<p>“It is no good my saying anything. Of course
you will deny everything, and so will she, but I
heard.”</p>

<p>“You will excuse me, but I haven’t the faintest
idea what on earth you are talking about.” His
face was stern. “We don’t want to rouse the
whole house at this hour. Hadn’t you better tell
me what the trouble is? In the first place, what
are you doing here at all?”</p>

<p>“You know perfectly well. It’s no good lying.
I heard everything and came down here to see
you. You are not going out of this room alive.”</p>

<p>Collins slowly drew out his case, and lit a
cigarette. He knew a hasty action might force
the issue.</p>

<p>“What did you hear?” he asked, casually.</p>

<p>“Oh, it’s no good. I could not sleep, you know
why. Then I thought I would try a whiskey,
which I never touch as a rule, so I came down.
As I passed Mabel’s bedroom, I heard talking
and—I know I ought not to have done, but I
listened.”</p>

<p>“If it interests you to know,” said Collins, “I
do not even know where Miss Watson’s bedroom
is, so if I were you, I should hesitate to make any
insinuations.”</p>

<p>The other was shaken by his firm tones.</p>

<p>“But I tell you I heard a man’s voice in there,
and Mabel called him dear. And then she said
‘Go to the dining-room, I will join you there.’ ”</p>

<p>“And you pretend to love this girl, and dare
to make such foul accusations. If Miss Watson
was talking to anyone, it is her own business, and
I am sure she has her own reasons. You ought
to be ashamed of yourself. As for my being here,
if you want to know, I could not sleep, and I
heard someone moving about the house. I am
an investigator as you know, and apart from the
question of burglars, I am convinced there is
something happening in this house which
requires investigating. So I came down and found
you here.”</p>

<p>Sanders looked at him doubtfully.</p>

<p>“But I tell you, Mabel was talking with a man
in her bedroom.”</p>

<p>“You make me sick with your insinuations.
How do you know it was a man? A woman can
imitate a man’s voice as a man can a woman’s.”</p>

<p>Sanders was in perplexity, and slowly put the
revolver on the table. Without any sudden
movement Collins picked it up. “Is this yours?” he
asked casually.</p>

<p>“No,” said Sanders. “It belonged to Sir James.
I found it here among his papers.”</p>

<p>“Sir James was very fond of pistols,” said
the other, “he had one in London, too.”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Sanders, “he was always afraid of
being attacked.”</p>

<p>“I wonder you did not have one, too,” said
Collins.</p>

<p>“I did,” said Sanders and stopped.</p>

<p>Collins was quite at his ease. Sander’s fit
of wild jealousy was passing away. “Lost it?”
he said.</p>

<p>“Yes, I got rid of it,” said Sanders in some
confusion.</p>

<p>“But we must not stay here; if you tell me on
your word of honour it was not you I heard, I
will apologize for my words.”</p>

<p>“Certainly I will, but it is to Miss Watson
that an apology is due, not to me.”</p>

<p>“Of course I cannot mention it to her, she
would never forgive me. And I hope you will
not do so.”</p>

<p>Collins looked straight at him.</p>

<p>“I should advise you to keep these fits of
excitement within bounds—and,” he added slowly,
“when they do come on, to leave your revolver
behind you.”</p>

<p>“What do you mean?” said Sanders, turning
white.</p>

<p>“When you called on Sir James Watson and
asked to see him, you were in one of those fits.
It is dangerous.”</p>

<p>“What do you mean?”</p>

<p>“When you left your card under the door,
with a note to say you must see him at once, I
don’t suppose you forget the day,” and he looked
at him with meaning.</p>

<p>“Are you suggesting that I⸺?”</p>

<p>“I am suggesting nothing,” said Collins,
sternly. “I am citing facts.”</p>

<p>“If you think I had any hand in the murder,
you had better arrest me,” said the other wildly.</p>

<p>“I am not a policeman, and do not go about
arresting people. The police know their
business. I am merely giving you a friendly
warning against temper. And now I think I will go
to bed. I am sure someone has been listening to
our conversation. And if you don’t mind, I think
I will take this.” And he picked up the revolver.
Sanders watched him go without a word.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch13">

<h2>Chapter XIII. <br/> The Car in the Dark</h2>

<p>In spite of the adventures of the night,
Collins was the first down in the morning. Old
John was in the dining-room.</p>

<p>“Oh, sir,” he said, “Mr. Eric has gone off early
this morning. He has left a note for Miss Mabel,
and he left something for me as he always does,
with a note to say he had to go back to London,
and would have breakfast on the train.”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes,” said Collins. “Miss Watson told me
he was going to-day, but I did not think he was
going so early.”</p>

<p>“May I say a word to you, sir? You have been
very good to me, and did not laugh at me the
other day. You know, sir, about—what I saw.”</p>

<p>“What you thought you saw,” said Collins,
with a smile.</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, well I was awake last night and I
can swear I heard people talking. I should have
come down, but after what happened, I was
afraid to.”</p>

<p>“That’s quite all right, I was about myself,
and so was Mr. Sanders. I expect it was the
storm which kept us all awake.”</p>

<p>“But what were you doing in the empty room
in the attics, sir, if I may be so bold as to ask?”</p>

<p>“In the attics?” said Collins; then, quickly,
“Oh, yes, of course, we heard a window banging,
and went to see.”</p>

<p>John looked sceptical. “But forgive me, sir,
it sounded as though there was a woman with
you, or a man disguising his voice.”</p>

<p>Collins dared not ask further.</p>

<p>“You must have been mistaken, surely,” he
said.</p>

<p>“Perhaps so, sir,” he said, doubtfully.</p>

<p>The room with the light in it, thought Collins.
This is getting interesting.</p>

<p>Allery came in. “Hullo, Collins,” he said.
“Down already. What a night of storm, but it
has cleared up now.”</p>

<p>“Yes, it has cleared up now,” said Collins, with
such meaning in his voice that the other man
looked at him with surprise.</p>

<p>“Sanders has gone,” said Collins.</p>

<p>“Really, I knew he was going to-day, but he is
very early. You are off, too?”</p>

<p>“Yes, I must get back. It is very jolly down
here, but not business. There are a lot of things
I must see to in London.”</p>

<p>The others drifted in slowly, but a message
came from Mabel that she was not feeling well,
and would not be down till later.</p>

<p>There was a general feeling of uneasiness in
the air.</p>

<p>Collins had ordered the car for ten o’clock,
and thought he would not see his hostess, but
she came in as he was getting ready to go.</p>

<p>“I am most awfully sorry I could not be down
this morning. Pray forgive me.”</p>

<p>“I hope you are feeling better,” he said. She
was obviously ill, and lines of black showed
round her eyes.</p>

<p>“I am afraid this visit has been very dull for
you,” she said.</p>

<p>“On the contrary, I have enjoyed it
immensely,” he hesitated. “Miss Watson,” he said, “I
would not like to worry you, but if it should
happen that certain suspicions gather round
someone who is perhaps dear to you⸺”</p>

<p>He got no further. Her face turned ashen,
and she reeled as though about to faint. Collins
caught her, and held her, but she repulsed him.</p>

<p>“What do you mean?” she said in a hoarse
whisper.</p>

<p>“I want to warn you. If you hear anything—any
rumour about Sanders⸺”</p>

<p>“Eric?” she said, in unmistakable
astonishment. “Whatever should there be against him?”</p>

<p>There was more relief than indignation in her
tone, which Collins was quick to notice. He took
a quick resolve.</p>

<p>“I will tell you. On the day that your father
was murdered, after he had posted a letter, Mr.
Sanders called to see him.”</p>

<p>Now her eyes were wide open with horror.</p>

<p>“He handed a note under the door, begging
your father to see him.”</p>

<p>“But how do you know this?” she said
breathlessly.</p>

<p>He pulled out his pocket book without a word,
and handed her the card. She looked at it,
turning it over in her hand, and gave it back to him.</p>

<p>“I found this in the room at the first
examination, and Mrs. Simmons afterwards told me the
truth.”</p>

<p>“Did he see my father?” she asked.</p>

<p>“No; he would not see him.”</p>

<p>“And—have you told this to the police?”</p>

<p>“No,” replied he; “I work independently. I
have not told a soul.”</p>

<p>Tears came into her eyes.</p>

<p>“How good of you, and he has treated you so
badly all the time, and you never said a word.
Of course you don’t really suspect him, but you
might have given him an awful time.”</p>

<p>“I am afraid you give me credit for too much
generosity. I never move till I am certain. In
any case I would not have let his behaviour affect
my attitude.”</p>

<p>“Well, I think you have acted like a
sportsman, and I am very grateful,” and she gave him
her hand.</p>

<p>“You haven’t got to go at once, have you?
Do stay a little longer.”</p>

<p>“This is very good of you,” he said, “but I must
get off by this train.”</p>

<p>“I am sorry,” she said, and went out.</p>

<p>Collins stood in thought.</p>

<p>“Why was she so scared, and then so relieved
when I mentioned Eric’s name?” This was
getting interesting.</p>

<p>He went outside and ordered the car, telling
the man he would want it immediately.</p>

<p>When he returned Allery met him in the hall.
He came forward at once.</p>

<p>“Collins, Mabel has told me what you have
done about Sanders. Let me tell you it is a
generous action. Although I know the boy is
as straight as a die, you could have made havoc
of his life, and something would have clung to
him, even when he had cleared himself.”</p>

<p>“Don’t mention it. I knew he was not the
murderer.”</p>

<p>Allery looked at him.</p>

<p>“You have done a very clever thing,” he said,
“by accident. Oh, I have been keeping my eyes
open. If you had used this against Sanders you
would have made all Mabel’s sympathy turn to
him, and against you. It was like that with her
father. She would have turned on you with
loathing. As it is she is struck with your
generous conduct towards Sanders, and angry with
him for his treatment of you.”</p>

<p>“Nonsense, my dear fellow,” said Collins,
“You are entirely wrong about—what shall we
say—the situation.”</p>

<p>Allery gave a keen glance at him. “Humph,”
he said, “I wonder.”</p>

<p>“The car is waiting, sir,” said John.</p>

<p>Collins took his leave, and was driven to
Wilton-on-Sea. At the station he dismissed the
chauffeur with a liberal tip, and watched him
drive off. He then went to the parcels office
and despatched his bag to his flat in London.
Having done this he set out for a long walk,
with nothing but a stout stick, and a rucksack
with a few necessaries for the night. He had a
long tour in front of him.</p>

<hr/>

<p>A steady rain was falling through the thick
night, but the wind had dropped. The Vale was
wrapped in shadow, not a light was showing.
In the shrubbery Collins watched, getting what
shelter he could. Unless all his calculations
were at fault, here was the crisis of the
situation. He was in front of the main door, and here
it was that something would take place.</p>

<p>The time passed slowly, and he was thankful
for the flask he had brought. Away in the
distance a clock was striking. It was only nine
o’clock.</p>

<p>Presently a familiar sound broke on his ear,
the purring of a car. Along the drive came a
gaunt, formless mass showing no light. He
parted the bushes and looked keenly into the
body of the car. It was empty. There was no
one but the driver, who was heavily wrapped
up. The car drew up at the door, and the driver
got down. It was too dark to see further, and
Collins came stealthily from the bushes, and
turned down the drive. He was stiff from his
waiting, but broke into a run, and only paused
when he came to the entrance into the main road.
The gate was open, but he carefully shut it.</p>

<p>It would be necessary to open it and to light
up. He concealed himself.</p>

<p>It was not long before he heard the car coming
down the drive.</p>

<p>Silently he drew from his pocket an automatic
pistol and stood ready.</p>

<p>At the gate the car came to a stop. He heard
a woman’s voice say, “Bother, the gate must have
shut. Just open it, will you?”</p>

<p>“A man’s voice replied, “Hush, not so loud,”
and a figure got out of the car, and went forward.</p>

<p>The gate swung back, and at the same moment
the driver turned on the headlights. They were
dimmed and did not give much light, but a
flicker struck the man, though he tried to dodge
out of the way.</p>

<p>In that brief moment Collins recognised him.
The next moment the car had swung out into
the road.</p>

<p>“Allery, by all that’s holy,” said Collins, “and
the other is Mabel, of course.” Then he laughed.</p>

<p>“So that’s it, is it?”</p>

<p>He set out on his long tramp to the nearest
town.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch14">

<h2>Chapter XIV. <br/> Back in London</h2>

<p>Boyce was smoking an excellent cigar, and
was generally pleased with himself. He had
just received a short note from the Prime
Minister, thanking him for his good work in running
the murderer of the Home Secretary to earth,
and hinting that when the time came for the
retirement of that fine old soldier, Sir Thomas
Hawley, as Chief Commissioner for London, the
new Home Secretary could not do better than
appoint so efficient an officer as he had proved
himself to be.</p>

<p>This was good reading. He had feared some
strong words about his allowing lunatics to be
at large, but the truth was that Sir James had
never been popular with his colleagues, as he
was considered reserved, and had not lent
himself to giving soft berths to the nephews and
friends of his fellow Cabinet Ministers.</p>

<p>His death had enabled the Premier to reshuffle
the Ministry, and bring in an impecunious
nephew of his own to a minor post.</p>

<p>So everyone was happy.</p>

<p>Boyce rang the bell and sent for Sinclair.</p>

<p>The latter was not in the same genial mood.
None of the reflected glory of Boyce’s triumph
had come his way, and he was perfectly
convinced that whoever was guilty of the murder,
Jackson was not.</p>

<p>“Take a seat, Sinclair,” said Boyce. “You
might care to see this letter from the Premier,”
and he handed it over with an air of indifference
which did not deceive the other.</p>

<p>“Very good, sir, I congratulate you,” he said,
simply.</p>

<p>“And now, Sinclair, I want to read you the
indictment which Giles, of the Public
Prosecutor’s office, has drawn up. I think it is very
well done. Of course it is only in the form of
notes.</p>

<blockquote class="notes"><div>

  <p>Case against John Jackson, for the murder of
  Sir James Watson, Bt.</p>

  <p>(1) Jackson confesses in three separate
  statements that he has done the murder. But this
  without corroboration is of little value, since he has
  been declared insane by Medical Experts.</p>

  <p>(2) We have, therefore, to seek corroboration.
  Jackson states that he was several times hanging
  about the house in Leveson Square waiting for his
  chance.</p>

  <p>This is confirmed by P.C. Jenkins and P.C.
  Whiting, both of whom have identified the man as
  having been seen in the vicinity of the Square.</p>

  <p>(3) Jackson states that he called on
  Superintendent Sinclair three days previous to the
  murder, and while in his office, stole writing paper,
  and a letter signed by the latter, and on this paper
  wrote to the Central News Agency.</p>

  <p>Superintendent Sinclair confirms that such a
  call was made, but cannot trace any missing letter,
  though there might have been one.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>“Is that so?” said Boyce, glancing at the other.</p>

<p>Sinclair made a face.</p>

<p>“Well, I certainly said I remembered the man
calling, but I told them there was no missing
letter. When the lawyer asked whether it would
have been possible for such a letter to have been
taken, I said of course it was possible, but highly
improbable. That’s the way the lawyers twist
evidence, but go on, sir.”</p>

<p>Boyce looked as though he was about to rebuke
him for this heretical sentiment, but continued.</p>

<blockquote class="notes"><div>

  <p>(4) Jackson states that he called Sinclair
  and Collins on the ’phone, and corroboration can
  be obtained—he had the opportunity to do so—and
  there is a doubtful identification by a paper
  seller, who says he saw him leave the Public
  Telephone Call Office at Piccadilly Circus, at the time
  named. This man is not a reliable character, but
  the evidence can be used if necessary.</p>

  <p>(5) <i>Revolver.</i> Jackson makes a rambling
  statement as to how he got the revolver which
  cannot be relied upon, but as he is mad this does not
  count for much.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>Sinclair lifted his eyebrows. “That’s rather
amusing,” he said. “Where they find
corroboration, they accept his statements; where they
don’t, they say he is mad.”</p>

<p>Boyce looked at him severely. “This is only a
confidential memo,” he said, “for the information
of the office only.”</p>

<p>“I see,” said Sinclair, with contempt.</p>

<p>Boyce went on reading.</p>

<blockquote class="notes"><div>

  <p>(6) <i>Motive.</i> Although motive is not essential
  in the case of a lunatic, it is helpful with a certain
  type of criminal’s mental derangement. There is
  abundant evidence that Jackson had a fancied
  grievance against the late Home Secretary, who
  had turned down all his petitions for release from
  the asylum at Broadmoor. He had also sent
  threatening letters to Sir James.</p>

  <p>(7) <i>The Actual Crime.</i> Jackson states that
  he followed Sir James in, after he had been to the
  Pillar Box in the Square to post a letter. Mrs.
  Simmons declared on oath that he did not, but on
  further examination, when asked to swear that no
  one came in after that, said she could not do so,
  and showed great signs of confusion.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>Sinclair pricked up his ears. “I wonder,” he
said.</p>

<p>“What’s that?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“Well, sir, Collins always said that she was
not telling the whole truth to us, and that she
was hiding something.”</p>

<p>“There you are,” said Boyce. “Of course if
it was a matter of a trial, and of life and death,
we should turn the old woman inside out, and
she would probably confess; though why she
should try and screen him, is more than I can
tell; we may have it out of her in any case. Well,
that’s the case. What do you think of it?”</p>

<p>“I don’t think any jury would convict,” said
Sinclair doggedly.</p>

<p>“Really, Sinclair, you are very obstinate; I
suppose because you had no hand in catching
the man.”</p>

<p>“I see in all the accounts,” said Sinclair, “it
is made out that the police caught the man, and
nothing is said of him giving himself up.” Boyce
looked uncomfortable.</p>

<p>“It doesn’t do any harm, and does the police
good,” he said; “and in any case I am sure they
would have got him,” he ended, lamely.</p>

<p>Sinclair remained silent.</p>

<p>Boyce was annoyed.</p>

<p>“Here’s my idea of what occurred,” said he,
rather peevishly.</p>

<p>“Jackson comes out from the asylum, we will
assume, partially cured. He has nothing to do,
and gradually the old madness comes over him.
He nurses his grievance against Sir James until
it becomes an obsession. He comes to you about
it. Then he sees the official paper on your desk,
and with a madman’s cunning he takes some
pieces.</p>

<p>“Perhaps he thinks he will write to Sir James
on it, who can say? He hangs about waiting for
a chance, possibly only to speak to him. He had
obtained a revolver, goodness knows where, and
then the plan matures. With the cunning and
vanity of insanity, he writes to the Central
News—which by the way no one but a madman would
do, and calls you and Collins up for the same
reason. Perhaps he was watching you all the
time when you were at the house.</p>

<p>“He sees Sir James come out with a letter, and
as he states, he nearly killed him then, but
thinks he will do so inside.</p>

<p>“He follows him in, and shoots him and
escapes.</p>

<p>“He is watching you, and when you go to
Collins’ flat, he follows and leaves that stupid
message which also is the work of a madman
which you told me about. How’s that for a
case?”</p>

<p>Sinclair remained silent for a minute.</p>

<p>“A good counsel could smash it to pieces. I
am certain that he never took anything from my
room, but of course it is one of those things one
cannot swear to. If he followed Sir James in,
why did not Mrs. Simmons see him; and if she
did, why should she screen him? Why did she
hear no shot? And if she did, why did she not
raise the alarm? How did he get out again, and
close and lock the door behind him? Then who
was the man who called on Sir James in the
afternoon? Jackson makes no claim to be that
man, probably because no mention was made of
it in the papers?</p>

<p>“What I think happened is as Collins
suggested. This man read all the accounts and so
got them into his head that he is quite certain
he did the murder. It is not an uncommon
phase.”</p>

<p>Boyce interrupted. “I have no patience with
all this. Of course there are difficulties.
Whoever heard of a case where there were not, but
the evidence in my opinion is overwhelming.
Anyway, I am satisfied.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir, if you are convinced, that is
sufficient. What does the Public Prosecutor
think of it?”</p>

<p>“My dear Sinclair, have you been so long in
the service as not to know that the Public
Prosecutor is not concerned with opinions, but to
make out a case on the evidence.”</p>

<p>“And so you think that the case is ended?”</p>

<p>“I think,” said Boyce unctuously, “that this
poor fellow will go back to Broadmoor, from
which he ought never to have been released, and
that our Department will have scored a
triumph.”</p>

<p>“By the way,” he said, as if anxious to change
the conversation. “What has happened to our
friend Collins, he seems to have disappeared?”</p>

<p>“Oh, he’s gone down to Devonshire to Sir
James’ place.”</p>

<p>“What, is he still on some wild goose chase?”</p>

<p>Sinclair smiled. “I rather fancy it’s a different
sort of chase from what I saw in London. Eric
Sanders will have to look to his laurels.”</p>

<p>“Ho-ho, is that it? Fancy our friend Collins.
He doesn’t fit in with marriage bells, somehow.
I expect if there’s anything in it, he will give
up amateur detective work.”</p>

<p>“Mr. Sylvester Collins to see you, sir,” said
the messenger.</p>

<p>“Show him in,” said Boyce. Then in a
whisper—“Not a word about this, he will only start
arguing.”</p>

<p>Collins entered. He was neatly dressed as
always, but he had a gaunt look and the lines on
his face suggested sleepless nights.</p>

<p>“Where have you sprung from?” said Boyce,
with affected geniality of manner. He was not
anxious to go over the whole case with this man
whose keen intellect he feared.</p>

<p>“Oh, I have been first in Devonshire and for
the last three days on a walking tour.”</p>

<p>“You look it,” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“I really came to see Sinclair, but heard he
was with you, so came on.”</p>

<p>Boyce looked uncomfortable. “Would you
two rather be together? I have finished with
him.”</p>

<p>“I suppose you have just settled the case of Sir
James to your satisfaction, eh?” he said with a
laugh.</p>

<p>“Oh, I know you do not agree with our
conclusions, but I would much rather not go into the
whole matter.”</p>

<p>“I don’t wish to discuss it. I think you have
come to the wisest decision you could under the
circumstances.”</p>

<p>“Now you are trying to be sarcastic.”</p>

<p>“Not at all. I had an idea of my own, but I
don’t think it is worth following up. I have
finished with the case, and am quite satisfied with
the way things have turned out.”</p>

<p>The other two looked at him in astonishment.</p>

<p>“Well, you have changed your opinion. I am
very glad,” said Boyce, with genuine
satisfaction.</p>

<p>Sinclair looked bewildered.</p>

<p>“So your clue proved a fraud, did it?” he said.</p>

<p>“It did not lead where I expected,” he
answered.</p>

<p>“This is all Greek to me,” said Boyce; “won’t
you tell us?”</p>

<p>“No; it would only introduce the name of a
man who has nothing to do with the matter.”</p>

<p>“You wanted to see me?” said Sinclair, still
puzzled.</p>

<p>“Any time will do. By the way, Boyce, how
long do you think it will be before your case is
finished? I mean, all settled?”</p>

<p>“I can’t say, you know the course of the law is
not swift.”</p>

<p>“Shall we say a month?”</p>

<p>“I should think that will easily cover it.”</p>

<p>“Why are you so anxious to know?”</p>

<p>Collins flicked the ash off his cigarette into an
ash tray.</p>

<p>“Nothing much, only I know who the murderer
was, and I wanted to know how long it would be
before your man was convicted.”</p>

<p>The other two gazed at him in utter
astonishment.</p>

<p>“Do you mean to say that you think you know
who murdered Sir James and you are not going
to tell who it was?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“I never had any doubt in my own mind at all.
But to give him up—no, I am afraid that would
be impossible. You see, he doesn’t exist.”</p>

<p>“Doesn’t exist? What nonsense. Are you
trying one of your jokes on us?” said Boyce, crossly;
he hated mysteries.</p>

<p>“He’s gone, disappeared, vamoosed.”</p>

<p>“Do you mean he’s dead?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“The question is, did he ever exist?”</p>

<p>“Oh, I’ve no patience with this sort of talk,”
said Boyce. “If you know anything, for goodness
sake say what it is; if not, don’t talk in riddles.”</p>

<p>Sinclair had been watching keenly. His face
was grave.</p>

<p>“Yes, I think I know what you mean,” he said.</p>

<p>“Oh, you, too. What on earth are you getting
at?”</p>

<p>“I shall be in a position to say in a few days’
time, to tell you more,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“I wish you two would not be so confoundedly
mysterious,” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“If you’ve got anything to tell me, do so. As
for you, Sinclair, I expect loyalty from you at
any rate.”</p>

<p>Sinclair replied with some stiffness.</p>

<p>“I shall not take any action without
consulting you, sir, and I may be quite wrong.”</p>

<p>“Very well,” said Boyce, with a gesture of
dismissal.</p>

<p>Alone together Collins and Sinclair went to
the latter’s room.</p>

<p>“What an ass that man is,” said Collins. “He
hasn’t the brains of a rabbit.”</p>

<p>“I wonder,” said the other, “whether he is
quite the fool you think him.”</p>

<p>“What are your plans?”</p>

<p>“Do you know a place called Wilton-on-Sea?”
said Sinclair. Collins looked keenly at him.</p>

<p>“Yes, I know it,” he said.</p>

<p>“I am thinking of running down there,” said
Sinclair.</p>

<p>“What on earth are you going there for?”</p>

<p>“I have been told that it is very good air, and
as I have a few days’ leave, I thought I would try
it.”</p>

<p>Collins thought for a moment.</p>

<p>“Well, you probably don’t know, but it is quite
close to Sir James Watson’s place—in fact, it is
the station for it.”</p>

<p>“Really?” said Sinclair. “Then of course you
know it well?”</p>

<p>“If you are really going there I will run you
down in my car. You might like to see Sir
James’ place.”</p>

<p>The men looked at each other.</p>

<p>“I would like to see inside your head, and find
out what there is there,” said Sinclair. “You’ve
something concealed.”</p>

<p>Collins laughed. “That’s just what I was
thinking. What are you after? Well, we will
each keep his own counsel.”</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch15">

<h2>Chapter XV. <br/> The Crisis</h2>

<p>Beyond Wilton-on-Sea, there is a bare hill
standing gaunt above the surrounding
country.</p>

<p>On the seaward side the cliff is sheer, and to
the West a sudden drop into a quarry pit makes
for danger. On the East a very steep path leads
to a semi-ruined church, surrounded by a church
yard, and some little distance away is a tower
where once stood an ancient castle.</p>

<p>The church forms a landmark for miles.</p>

<p>From a distance it appears to be an imposing
edifice. On near approach there is a tiny chancel
which still retains a roof, and a nave with no
roof. It is all very small, like the chapel of a
stronghold in days gone by. At the base of the
hill is a public-house of mean appearance, and
also some straggling houses.</p>

<p>It was here that Sinclair and Collins had
taken up their residence. For three days they
had been glued to the spot. A fretful distrust of
each other was growing up, which they tried their
best to hide.</p>

<p>There had been no talk of going to Sir James’
house. Collins would sit in the little sitting
room upstairs, reading, with one eye on the
window. Sinclair was more restless; he wandered
outside, prowling round the base of the hill but
never going up.</p>

<p>He appeared to be drinking more than was
good for him, and evidently suffering from the
strain of waiting. Each was sure that the other
was keeping something to himself, but whatever
it was it had drawn them to this spot. Evening
was coming on after a grey autumn afternoon,
and a thin drizzle was falling. It was a time
when a wise man hugs his fire, and is glad to
draw the curtains and light a cheery lamp.</p>

<p>There was no light in the small upper room
where Collins sat like a sphinx. Sinclair was
glowering in the arm-chair, his face slightly grey,
and a worried look in his eyes.</p>

<p>The hillside was getting dark, and the church
on the top stood out black against the western
sky. A straggling group of people were coming
down the steep path. There had been a service
in the tiny chancel, and curiosity had drawn
visitors to attend.</p>

<p>Perhaps a dozen or so were descending the
steep pathway.</p>

<p>Collins gave a slight movement, and drew in
his breath quickly.</p>

<p>“At last!” he said, almost involuntarily.</p>

<p>He sprang to his feet, and took his mackintosh
from a chair.</p>

<p>Sinclair got up, too. “Well?” he said.</p>

<p>Collins laughed. “Come on then. I see you
want to be in at the death.”</p>

<p>Without a word Sinclair put on his coat, and
followed.</p>

<p>At the point where the steep path wound
upwards there was a lych-gate. Here in the
shadow they waited while the rain dripped off
the tiled roof. The people had passed, and a
solitary figure was approaching in the gathering
gloom.</p>

<p>He was scarcely a yard off, when Sinclair made
an exclamation, and sprang forward. He laid his
hand on the other’s shoulder and looked straight
in his face. “Ah,” he said, “Lewis at last! I
arrest you for the murder of Sir James Watson,
and I warn you—but of course you know all
about that.” The other made no movement of
protest or resentment. Collins came forward
smiling blandly.</p>

<p>“Steady, Sinclair, don’t let your professional
zeal run away with you. You haven’t a warrant
to start with, and you are mistaking your man.”</p>

<p>“What do you mean?” said Sinclair, turning to
  him.</p>

<p>“You are mistaking your man, that is all. Let
me introduce you. This is Sir Ronald Watson,
Baronet, Superintendent Sinclair.”</p>

<p>A look of blank astonishment was on Sinclair’s
face, and he looked from one to the other in
bewilderment.</p>

<p>“What on earth do you mean?” he said.</p>

<p>The other man turned to Collins, “Hast thou
found me, oh mine enemy?” he said, with a smile,
which belied his words.</p>

<p>“Come on,” said Collins; “let’s get indoors, it’s
beastly out here.”</p>

<p>“So be it,” said the other.</p>

<p>They crossed the road where the mud was
splashing, and entered the house. Once in the
room, the stranger turned to Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Yes; I am Ronald Watson, though how Mr.
Collins has run me to earth is a mystery. And
what you are doing in the matter, unless you
knew my identity, is more than I can say.”</p>

<p>“I don’t understand it at all,” said Sinclair,
who was inclined to be sulky at the turn of
affairs. “It seems to me there will have to be a
lot of explanation.”</p>

<p>“You shall have it. The time has gone by for
this concealment. It was a mistake. Only let me
tell you I had nothing to do with the murder of
my poor father.”</p>

<p>“I can answer for that,” said Collins.</p>

<p>“Look here,” continued Collins, “I have my
car here, and I suggest that we run over to The
Vale, and have a full explanation there.”</p>

<p>“Yes; that will be the best thing,” said
Watson, or Lewis. A sudden thought crossed
Sinclair’s mind. “Oh, of course. That will do,” he
said. Collins was watching him keenly.</p>

<p>“Will you settle up here then, while Watson
and I get the car ready?”</p>

<p>Sinclair was about to demur, but after all this
was Collins’ capture, and he could not very well
insist on keeping the man with him, and as
Collins had said he had no warrant.</p>

<p>Without waiting for an answer, the other two
went out.</p>

<p>In a few minutes the humming of the car was
heard, and Sinclair, having paid their bill, went
to the front door.</p>

<p>The small luggage they had brought was
always ready packed, for each had felt they
might have to move in a hurry.</p>

<p>At the door Collins and Watson were already
in the car, and Sinclair got in behind with none
too good a grace.</p>

<p>They set off into the night at a rapid pace.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Old John came to the door in answer to their
ring, and Collins got down, leaving the others in
the car.</p>

<p>In a matter-of-fact voice he asked whether he
could see Miss Watson—he would not come in,
he had some friends in the car.</p>

<p>John said he would ask her to come.
Whatever astonishment he felt he did not show.
Warned by some premonition she could not
master, Mabel came at once. She had just been
going up to dress.</p>

<p>“How do you do, Mr. Collins?” she said. “John
tells me you won’t come in.”</p>

<p>“I wanted to speak to you first,” he said.
“Don’t be alarmed, I have your brother here
with me. I brought him over from Wilton.”</p>

<p>She turned white and caught hold of the post
of the door.</p>

<p>“My brother?” she stammered.</p>

<p>“Yes; he feels, and I agree with him, that the
time has come for a full explanation.”</p>

<p>She lifted her head proudly. “There is nothing
shameful or underhand.”</p>

<p>“I know that,” said Collins quietly, “but I
have Superintendent Sinclair here, an old friend
of mine from Scotland Yard, and he would like
to hear the whole thing.”</p>

<p>“Scotland Yard?” she said. “He has not⸺?”</p>

<p>“Arrested him. Oh, no, there’s nothing of
that sort.”</p>

<p>A figure came from the car.</p>

<p>“It’s all right, Mabel, don’t be frightened.
We’ve made fools of ourselves with all this
secrecy, and we’ll have all the cards on the table
now. Let’s get out of this wet.”</p>

<p>Sinclair advanced and shook hands with
Mabel. He had met her, of course, in London,
at the time of the Inquest, but could hardly claim
acquaintance.</p>

<p>In the hall they were met by Allery and Eric
Sanders.</p>

<p>Collins opened his eyes in surprise.</p>

<p>“Eric,” said Mabel. “This is my brother.”
The two men shook hands with a mutual look of
interest.</p>

<p>Allery laughed outright.</p>

<p>“You young dog,” he said. “How did you come
to be caught after all our trouble. I was afraid
Collins would be one too much for us.... I
congratulate you on your cleverness,” said he,
turning to Collins.</p>

<p>“I am afraid this is all Greek to me,” said
Sinclair stiffly. He had expected Tragedy, and
found Comic Opera.</p>

<p>“You shall know everything,” said Allery;
“but come to dinner first. Can you manage it?”
he said to Mabel.</p>

<p>“I’ll go and see about it at once,” said she.</p>

<p>“As these three poor men have no dress clothes
with them, we will have a scratch meal, and then
a round talk.” Her spirits seemed to have risen
now that the affair was over.</p>

<p>Dinner was a merry meal, even if the gaiety
was somewhat forced.</p>

<p>Old John moved round with a look of blank
astonishment on his face. His eyes were round
and wide, and he could not keep them off Watson.
The aunt had sent a message that she would not
come to dinner. The news had proved too much
for her nerves.</p>

<p>When the port was on the table, and John had
retired, Mabel said, “This room is very comfy,
and I think we might go into matters here. You
can smoke.”</p>

<p>“Not till after this excellent port,” said
Collins. “Our ancestors would turn in their graves
if we smoked with the port. Isn’t that so,
Watson?”</p>

<p>“That was the custom,” said the other with a
smile. There was no trace of the Scotland Yard
‘hack’ now in this man who presided at the table
as one born to it.</p>

<p>“Well, before we have your story,” said
Collins, “I would like to know how many were in
the plot. Miss Watson and you, Allery, I know.
Anyone else?” and he glanced sharply at Sanders.</p>

<p>“You are a wizard,” said Allery. “No, there
were only us two. Sanders knew nothing about
it.”</p>

<p>Sinclair moved uneasily. Was he in a
madhouse? ‘Plot’ and ‘secret’! These people were
talking as though they were playing a game, and
he had come on the track of a murderer.</p>

<p>“Can we have the explanation of all this?” he
said, testily.</p>

<p>“Certainly, Sinclair,” said Watson, “and you
are entitled to one from me, at any rate. Here
goes.”</p>

<p>The main lights were turned off, and only the
electric bulbs in shades threw a soft light on the
table. There was no sound in the room while
Watson spoke.</p>

<p>“I will not be more tedious than possible, but
I want to make the narrative clear, so I must go
back.”</p>

<p>“I need not go into the reasons for my leaving
England. Allery here, I know, thought I had
done something criminal—in fact, forged my
father’s name. But I think I have convinced him
that it was only a youthful outbreak, which I
sincerely regret.” Allery nodded, gravely.</p>

<p>“I wandered about in the South American
States. I found I could not settle down to any
definite occupation, and after a time I got mixed
up with a pretty little revolution. Partly through
pride, and partly because I was not carrying out
the conditions my father imposed, I stopped
communicating with the lawyer at Monte Video, and
then I was in prison, and nearly executed for
my part in the revolution which failed. When I
got out, I had had enough of plots, and was only
released on my agreeing to leave the country. I
knew a man who was a merchant, and he gave
me a job to come to England in charge of some
freight for his firm which required some one to
travel with it, largely bullion. It was a
responsible job, though an easy one, and with a strong
letter of recommendation from the firm I got a
position in the London office, where my
knowledge of the other end was useful. I had intended
to go to the old man, and tell him the whole
thing, but it savoured too much of the prodigal
son, and I delayed doing so. I soon got sick of
the office work, and as I had always had a taste
for detective stories, I got the idea that I would
try and get into Scotland Yard. My father was
not then Home Secretary, or I would not have
risked a chance meeting. As Sinclair here knows
I got in as a clerk on the recommendation of my
good merchants. Only the head of the firm knew
where I had come from, and he died soon after,
so my past was hidden.</p>

<p>“I believe I discharged my duties
satisfactorily, and was promoted to be right-hand man to
Superintendent Sinclair. I might even have
become an Inspector in time.</p>

<p>“All this time I had held no communication
with my father or sister, though I couldn’t resist
the temptation of coming down here and looking
at the old place, and saw them both without being
seen. This was only three weeks before the death
of my father.” He paused and steadied his voice.
“It got on my nerves and I had almost made up
my mind to come and tell him the whole story.
On the very day of the terrible occurrence, I had
made up my mind to go to him, and as you know
now, I had spoken aloud on the subject. I went
out with the intention of doing so, but wandered
round in a state of uncertainty, and then
returned. Would to God I had gone!”</p>

<p>“Wait a moment,” said Sinclair. “Then you
were not the man who called on Sir James on
that afternoon?”</p>

<p>“No; I never saw him again,” he answered
sadly.</p>

<p>“You can imagine the awful shock I had when
you sent for me and told me of the telephone
message, although I hoped it was, as you thought,
a hoax. When you asked me to go into the house,
I was so upset I felt I could not do so, and made
an excuse. I wandered out in a terrible state of
anxiety till the evening papers came out with an
account of the affair. I didn’t know what to do,
but I felt I must get in touch with Mabel and
declare myself. I was really half off my head,
and so I settled up at my old lodgings and left
London. I did not go back to the office, as
already I had the idea of disappearing as Lewis
and coming back as myself. I suppose it was
pride. I thought somehow it would not look very
well that I had been a clerk in Scotland Yard.
Then next morning the papers came out, and I
saw to my horror that I was ‘wanted’ in
connection with the crime. You can imagine my
feelings. I could see the frightful construction that
would be placed on my actions—the most awful
accusation that can be brought against any man.</p>

<p>“It was dreadful. Of course I knew I could
clear myself, but there would be that nasty
suspicion which always hangs round a man who
has been accused and that damnable saying
‘there is no smoke without a fire.’ I had arrived
the night before, and not wishing to go to the
house at once, I had spent the night in the old
tower near the chapel, where I used to go 
birds-nesting when I was a youngster. I came on here
in the early hours of the morning, and roused
Mabel up. She came down and let me in, and
we had a very long talk. We could not decide
what to do. It seemed difficult for me to get out
of the country, and equally difficult to stay.</p>

<p>“Mabel had to go up to the inquest, and there
was no one to advise us. So we decided to take
Allery into our confidence. He came down here
and we told him the whole story.”</p>

<p>All eyes were turned on the old lawyer.</p>

<p>“Yes,” he said. “They dragged me into it, and
I had to give advice. I was quite convinced that
our young friend had nothing to do with the
crime. There was nothing criminal in his
remaining in hiding. If he could have got away to
Monte Video, he could have come back from there
in the ordinary course and established his
identity. But, in the meantime, he had better
wait till the police had got hold of the real man,
and then there would be no case against him.
It was hard to decide what to do, but the
publicity was what we all wanted to avoid.”</p>

<p>“We arranged,” continued Watson, “for me to
stay in the old attic over the hall door; there are
no secret chambers or anything of that sort in
the house. I just lived as best I could while
Mabel was in London. Then you all came down
here to stay. That made matters easier in a way,
as Mabel and Allery could both come and see
me. We hit on the rather absurd scheme of my
dressing up in my father’s court dress and with
a wig and false moustache. We thought, if by
any chance I were seen, it would be thought to
be the ghost of Sir James. We thought that
would be the lesser evil.”</p>

<p>“So then it was you that old John saw in this
room?” said Sanders.</p>

<p>“Yes, and I would have taken him into our
confidence, but he fled like a madman. I don’t
think he knew where he was. After that we
thought it was too risky for me to remain in the
house, and I was in Mabel’s room all ready to
go, when we heard noises downstairs, and sounds
of talking, so I had to take cover again.”</p>

<p>“So it was you who were talking to Mabel that
night?” said Sanders before he realised what he
had said.</p>

<p>“What do you mean?” said Mabel, sharply.</p>

<p>He was crimson with shame and could hardly
meet her eyes.</p>

<p>“Only that I heard someone talking in your
room with you, and came down here and—met
Collins.”</p>

<p>Mabel’s eyes glittered ominously. “I think
you had better explain yourself,” she said.</p>

<p>“Oh, please, don’t ask me. Well, if you must
know, I accused Mr. Collins of having
been—with you, and we had heated words over it.
There, that’s the truth, and you must think what
you will of me,” and he moved his hands in a
gesture of despair.</p>

<p>They all looked at Collins.</p>

<p>“I would rather not say anything about the
matter, but since we are all giving explanations,
I found Sanders in here with a loaded revolver
waiting to shoot me. I was able to prove to him
that it was not I that he had heard, and that his
suspicions were groundless and unworthy. That
is all.”</p>

<p>“How horrible,” said Mabel, clenching her
teeth.</p>

<p>“Oh, I know,” said Sanders, “I was a brute
and Collins here acted like a gentleman. I had
better go.”</p>

<p>“Please stay where you are—for the present,”
said Mabel. “Since you have acted like this I
will also say something. Mr. Collins knew that
you had called on Sir James on the very
afternoon of the crime, and he said nothing about it,
because he was certain that you were not the
criminal, or connected with the crime. He could
have ruined you if he had liked to tell what he
knew. And you repay him with vile suspicions.
Now you will wait to hear the end.”</p>

<p>There was an awkward silence for a few
minutes. Sinclair looked unasked questions at
Collins.</p>

<p>“I am sorry Miss Watson has mentioned this,
but since it is out I rely on you, gentlemen, to
keep it to yourselves. I picked up a card on the
floor of the library which Sanders had dropped.
Mrs. Simmons knew all about this visit.”</p>

<p>“Oh, so that’s it, is it?” said Sinclair. “I
begin to see. That’s what she was keeping back in
her evidence. That’s what you had up your
sleeve.”</p>

<p>“I thought it would not be fair to tell you this
at the time, as you would be bound to use it
officially. If it had led to anything, of course I
would have told you; when I was satisfied in my
own mind that Sanders had nothing to do with
the crime.” Sanders squirmed with shame. “I
decided to tell no one.”</p>

<p>“That’s why you told Miss Watson, I
suppose,” Sanders blurted out.</p>

<p>“You wrong Mr. Collins, he only told me when
we had got at cross-purposes. When he told me
there might be suspicion on someone dear to me
I thought he meant Ronald. He treated you most
generously all through,” she said, coldly.</p>

<p>“We are rather wandering from the main
story,” said Allery, to pour oil on the water.
“Let’s hear the rest, Watson.”</p>

<p>“There is little more to tell. We decided that
I must get out of the house, and I thought of the
old tower. Allery here had arranged for a motor
boat to take me to Bristol, and I was going on
board a tramp bound for Rio. I was going to
answer the advertisement from there and return.
To-morrow I should have been off, but our friend
here,” he pointed to Collins, “seems to have been
one too much for us, and came in the nick of
time.”</p>

<p>Collins gave a laugh. “I see you all want to
know my part in the matter. I am afraid there
is no mystery about it, and no great skill. I will
confess that when I found the visiting card on
the floor I thought it was a possible clue, and
worth following up. But when I became
acquainted with Sanders I realised that it was a
mere coincidence.” He bowed slightly to Sanders
with a politeness which was almost a mockery,
and Sanders looked hatred at him. Every word
was putting him in a position of humiliation and
Collins as the hero of the piece, and it was gall
to him.</p>

<p>Collins continued.</p>

<p>“The first thing which put me on the track was
the fact that no news had been heard of Lewis.
I was certain that he had nothing to do with the
crime, and yet he had disappeared. His
confusion when asked to go to Leveson Square was
taken to be a sign of guilt, but if there was no
guilt there must be another explanation. He had
not fled instantly. He had gone back to his
lodgings, and paid his bill, and then gone. There
was, therefore, I argued, another reason for
going. It must be connected in some way with Sir
James, especially when he had said that he was
going there on that afternoon. There was a hue
and cry out for him, and he had not come
forward to clear himself. Then he must have a
reason beyond the mere shrinking from publicity.</p>

<p>“Then it is difficult for a man without friends,
as he appeared to be, to disappear entirely, as he
seemed to have done.</p>

<p>“If it was anything to do with Sir James, there
might conceivably be a clue at this house. On
the first night I was here as the sun was setting
a ray shone on that portrait of Sir James, and I
saw Lewis looking at me.”</p>

<p>“What do you mean?” said Mabel, startled.</p>

<p>“I mean the likeness was unmistakable. The
light was peculiar, and the eyes, nose and
forehead were all that showed up, and there was the
striking family likeness.”</p>

<p>“I saw the expression on your face,” said
Allery, “and it made me uneasy.”</p>

<p>“And I saw the look that passed between you
and Miss Mabel,” said Collins with a laugh, “and
it confirmed my suspicions.”</p>

<p>“Then the ghost, of course, was as clear as
daylight to me. The dress was a good idea, if I may
say so. I found the marks of real feet on the
hearth-rug. When I went from here I did not go
back to London, but kept watch. I thought I
had got you,” he said turning to Watson, “when
the car left here secretly at night; but you were
too cunning, there was only Allery and Miss
Mabel. I suppose that was your doing, Allery?”</p>

<p>Allery burst out laughing. “We did you
there. We had no idea that anyone was
watching, of course, but we had to take precautions,
so Mabel fetched the car from the garage, and
Watson was waiting there. He was on the floor
of the car, covered with a rug, and I came out
of the front door and joined them. It was in
case any servants were about. We didn’t want
another ghost episode. But how did you pick
up the clue?”</p>

<p>“I hung around. The night was too wet to
follow the tracks of the car, but twice I saw you
going on the road to Wilton in the evening, and
each time I was further along the road, and on
the second occasion was able to follow up, and
saw the car at the bottom of the hill. I was
certain Lewis, or Sir Ronald, as I now thought it
was, was hiding in the neighbourhood, and knew
a search would simply give the game away.</p>

<p>“So I came down here and watched, and finally
saw you coming down the hill. I had found out
about this strange service, and calculated that
if a lonely man wanted to come down he would
take the chance when a lot of others were
coming.”</p>

<p>“Very clever,” said Allery.</p>

<p>“I think that explains all there is to explain.
But how did you get on the track, Sinclair?”</p>

<p>“I had my suspicions, but pardon me, I am
not a free-lance like you are, but an official, and
you must allow me to keep my secrets.”</p>

<p>“Of course,” said Collins, carelessly.</p>

<p>“What I don’t understand,” said Allery, “is,
why you were so keen on finding out the whole
thing?”</p>

<p>“Blackmail, I should think,” said Sanders.</p>

<p>Mabel gave him a look of contempt, and the
rest ignored him.</p>

<p>“I really couldn’t tell you. I suppose a
problem always fascinated me, and then I thought I
might be of some use, perhaps,” and he glanced
at Mabel.</p>

<p>“You have certainly cleared up the mystery,”
said Allery.</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Sinclair, “but we are no nearer to
the question of the murder.”</p>

<p>“I thought they had got the man,” said Mabel
in surprise.</p>

<p>“They think they have,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“I suppose it will remain one of those
unsolved mysteries.”</p>

<p>“By the way, Sir Ronald,” said Sinclair,
starting up, “can I have a word with you, I shan’t
keep you a minute?”</p>

<p>“Oh, really, Mr. Sinclair, I think he has had
enough for this evening,” said Mabel.</p>

<p>“I am afraid the matter is very urgent,”
insisted the other.</p>

<p>Something in his manner irritated Allery.
“Mr. Sinclair,” he said, “you must remember,
please, you are a guest here, and not on official
duty. Are you not satisfied with the
explanation you have heard?”</p>

<p>Collins interposed. “Don’t you think you
ought to tell old John and the servants that you
have come home? You know how servants
gossip.”</p>

<p>“Of course,” said Watson, “I must do that at
once. Don’t disturb yourselves, we don’t want
any solemn announcement. I will just go and
tell him, in an off-hand way. The old fellow will
be very pleased.”</p>

<p>He got up and went out. Sinclair bit his lip.</p>

<p>There was a silence when he had gone out.</p>

<p>Allery cleared his throat.</p>

<p>“Mr. Sinclair,” he said, “this brings about an
awkward situation. We are rather in your
hands. Your department is searching for Lewis.
You have—if I may say so—unofficially found
him. The question is, if you are satisfied that
he has nothing to do with the crime, will you
consent for us to carry out our plan and let him
go, as we had arranged.”</p>

<p>“That places me in a curious position. I
can’t give an answer off-hand. I must think it
over.”</p>

<p>“Take your time,” said Collins pleasantly.
“Have a whiskey and soda?” He rose from the
table and went to the sideboard.</p>

<p>“Bother, there’s none here. Miss Mabel, may
I act as butler and fetch some, we don’t want
to send for old John just now?”</p>

<p>“Certainly,” she said with a smile.</p>

<p>He went out.</p>

<p>Sanders spoke for the first time since his gross
insinuation.</p>

<p>“I will go. After what has happened you will
not want me to remain.”</p>

<p>“That is a matter for you to decide,” said
Mabel stiffly.</p>

<p>“Oh, that’s all nonsense,” said Allery, “you
two are not going to let this business upset you.
It only needs an apology, and I am sure Sanders
will give that. He was upset, and perhaps a
little jealous,” he added.</p>

<p>Sanders coloured.</p>

<p>“Your remark is in doubtful taste,” he said.
“I don’t think any apology would serve in a case
like this.” He rose.</p>

<p>Sinclair put up his hand. “Stop,” he said
firmly, “I may want you.”</p>

<p>Sanders turned from red to white. “What do
you mean?” he said.</p>

<p>“I have no warrant, and cannot make any
arrest. But it would be advisable if you did not
leave this house.”</p>

<p>“This is about the last straw,” said Sanders,
and sank into his chair.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch16">

<h2>Chapter XVI. <br/> The Criminal Found</h2>

<p>“He’s a long time getting that whiskey,”
said Allery.</p>

<p>“I expect he’s having a talk with John and
my brother,” said Mabel. Sinclair sprang
forward in his chair.</p>

<p>“Good God,” he shouted, and without waiting
for leave, he rang the bell, keeping his hand on
the button in his excitement.</p>

<p>A maid answered the door.</p>

<p>“Where is Mr. Collins?” said he at once.</p>

<p>The maid looked her surprise. She was not
used to being spoken to like that.</p>

<p>“Mr. Collins and Sir Ronald have gone out for
a run in his car, sir,” she replied stiffly. “Sir
Ronald left a message that they might not be
back for some time.”</p>

<p>“Why didn’t you come and tell us, Mary?”
said Mabel quietly. She also resented Sinclair’s
interference.</p>

<p>“He said it would do later on as you were
busy, Miss,” and she looked surprised.</p>

<p>Allery was quick to notice it, and said:—</p>

<p>“All right, Mary, thank you. That’s quite all
right.”</p>

<p>The maid went out. Sinclair’s face was ashy.
He buried his face in his hands.</p>

<p>“What’s the matter, man?” said Allery
sternly.</p>

<p>“Matter, he’s gone to his death,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>For a moment there was a silence tense and
vital. It seemed as though the horror of these
weeks had come into the room in a living form.
Powers of evil gathered round.</p>

<p>The shadows deepened at the word. There
was utter and crushing conviction in the tones.</p>

<p>Mabel was the first to grasp the meaning, and
a flush mounted to her face. “Do you suggest
that my brother, after all you have heard, is a
murderer?” she said in a passionate voice.</p>

<p>“No, not for a moment,” said Sinclair, “but
before the morning comes he will be murdered,
as his father was murdered, and by the same
hand.”</p>

<p>“You mean?” said Allery, leaning forward.</p>

<p>“Exactly. Collins, the cleverest scoundrel we
have had for a generation.”</p>

<p>“Mr. Collins,” said Mabel, and there was pain
in the voice. “I will never believe that. You
must be mad.”</p>

<p>Allery rose with a grim look on his face.
“You have said too little or too much. We must
know what you mean.”</p>

<p>The temporary numbness passed from Sinclair
and he was the man of action.</p>

<p>“Yes, yes, of course, everything, but not now.
We must act at once. You must trust to my
word. I shall want all your help. First, have
you a car, and a driver?”</p>

<p>His energy infected the others.</p>

<p>“There’s our car,” said Mabel.</p>

<p>“Then get it ready at once,” said Sinclair
abruptly. “Ask questions afterwards.” Sanders,
who had not said a word after his last rebuff,
sprang to his feet. “I’ll go and see to it.”</p>

<p>“Good. Can you drive? No, the chauffeur
must do that. I will go, no, no, that won’t do,
I must telephone.”</p>

<p>“I’ll go,” said Sanders quietly. “If you’ll tell
me where to go.”</p>

<p>Sinclair looked doubtful. “It’s dangerous
your dealing with a man who will stick at
nothing. Have you a revolver?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Sanders blushing at the
recollection which it conjured up, of the night he had
unworthy suspicions of Mabel.</p>

<p>“Can you shoot? You are dealing with a crack
shot.”</p>

<p>“I’m pretty useful,” said the other.</p>

<p>“Then go.” Sanders went without a word.</p>

<p>“The telephone, in the hall isn’t it?” he rushed
out and seized the instrument. “Hullo, Trunks.
Scotland Yard priority call. Superintendent
Sinclair,” he said, and hung up the receiver.</p>

<p>Sanders came in breathless. “We can’t get the
car to start,” he said.</p>

<p>“Ah, I feared as much, he’s tampered with it,”
said Sinclair.</p>

<p>He seized the telephone, “Hullo that call
coming through?⸺”</p>

<p>“All right; give me the police station at
Wilton in the meantime—urgent.”</p>

<p>He waited a moment with the receiver in his
hand. “Hullo, Superintendent Sinclair here.
That you, Miles?—good. Get the best car at
once, and come here with two men. Armed, you
understand. I take full responsibility. Must
ring off, I’m waiting for the Yard.”</p>

<p>The bell tinkled, and he got through.</p>

<p>He issued rapid orders.</p>

<p>When he put up the receiver, he turned to the
others.</p>

<p>“There’s one point in our favour. He doesn’t
know he’s suspected. He has always regarded
everyone as a fool. But he’s a clever rogue if
ever there was one, and he’ll take some catching.”</p>

<p>“But my brother,” said Mabel, “you said he
was in danger.”</p>

<p>“I am so sorry, Miss Watson. I was so upset
for the moment. There is no immediate danger.
In fact, his one chance lies with keeping your
brother safe, for the moment, but his life is in
danger. I am bound to tell you that I have given
orders for the house in Leveson Square to be
watched, but it may not be there.”</p>

<p>“What may not be there?” said Allery; “we
are all in the dark.”</p>

<p>“I know. I will explain, but there’s no time
now.</p>

<p>“As far as I know he’s gone to London and
he will not spare the car. He may not go direct
in case of some such action as I have taken.”</p>

<p>Sanders came in.</p>

<p>“The car will go now,” he said. “Luckily the
chauffeur had spare parts, otherwise it would
have been hopeless, and there was evidently not
much time to tamper with it. I’ll get off, if you
tell me where to go.”</p>

<p>“Oh, don’t go,” said Mabel with a revulsion of
feeling. “Surely the police can do all that’s
necessary?”</p>

<p>“I’m going,” said Sanders, and his jaw set
square. There was a long account to settle with
this man.</p>

<p>“Go direct to London, as hard as you can.
Don’t stop to ask questions on the way. Go to
Leveson Square; here, take my card with you,
and explain to the men on duty there. If you
don’t catch them on the road, and I’m afraid you
have a poor chance, he will have got there first.
They have full instructions to act, but you must
get hold of Watson, and see to his safety if you
can. Good luck to you. Telephone if you can.
Use my name, and they will give you priority.”</p>

<p>Without even looking at Mabel or saying
good-bye, he went out.</p>

<p>“Oh, my brother and Mr. Collins! This is
awful; surely there must be some ghastly
mistake!”</p>

<p>“You must be brave,” said Allery, “and wait
for Mr. Sinclair’s explanation.”</p>

<p>A sound was heard outside as the car shot out
into the night.</p>

<p>“Too long a start,” said Sinclair, looking at
his watch.</p>

<p>John had been hovering at the door, and now
came forward.</p>

<p>“Can I be of any service, Miss?” he said.</p>

<p>“No, thank you, John,” said she, “except you
can tell the servants to keep absolutely silent
about anything that is happening. They will
all know in time. Meanwhile I depend on their
loyalty.”</p>

<p>The old man bowed. “I am sure you may
depend on them, Miss; but can I get you
anything?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Allery, “some strong black coffee
would do us all good. I can see we are going to
have a night of it.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir,” said John.</p>

<p>The sound of a car at the door was heard.
Sinclair opened it, and a policeman in plain
clothes entered and saluted.</p>

<p>“That’s right, Miles. Our man has gone to
London, at least I think so. A car has just gone
in pursuit, and I have informed the Yard. The
whole route will be watched and patrolled. They
are also watching the house in Leveson Square.
He has taken Sir Ronald Watson with him.”</p>

<p>The Inspector opened his eyes wide.</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Sinclair, “we have found Sir
Ronald Watson only to-day.”</p>

<p>He issued further instructions, with a
description of the car, and its occupants. He gave them
the number, “but,” he said, “he’s altered that, if
I know him.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir,” said the Inspector, “we’ll
catch him,” he added cheerfully. It was not
often such a chance came in his way, and visions
of promotion floated before him.</p>

<p>When he had sent them off, Sinclair came back
to the others.</p>

<p>“Shall we come into the dining-room?” he said.
“I must remain here where I can be found,
though I would have dearly loved the chase,”
he added sadly. “I don’t expect in the least they
will catch him. But I must try everything.”</p>

<p>He sank wearily into a seat. “What a day,”
he said.</p>

<p>The others waited.</p>

<p>Presently he sat up.</p>

<p>“Of course you will want an explanation, and
you are entitled to one. It will help pass the
time.”</p>

<p>“If you are too tired we can wait,” said Mabel,
but she was on the rack. Her brother, the man
who had been her lover, and he who had lately
filled so much of her life and whom she had
grown to respect even if there was no deeper
feeling, were all involved.</p>

<p>Sinclair started like a tired man, but as he
went on he warmed to his tale.</p>

<p>“Collins was a deep scoundrel, but like all such
he had two weaknesses. He was so vain that he
could not leave things alone, he must try daring
experiments, and he regarded all mankind as
fools. That was where he made his great
mistake. I don’t expect we shall ever know the
truth, for I am certain he will never be taken
alive.</p>

<p>“A great amount is still obscure, in fact, it
was only this evening that I was sure I was
right. Otherwise, of course, I should have acted
before. The first indication I had was a very
slight slip, so slight that it was almost instinct
that made me notice it. He was recounting Mrs.
Simmons’ evidence to Boyce and myself, and he
said that she had stated that Sir James had
complained of feeling sleepy. Now I was sure that
she had said nothing of the sort, and I took the
trouble to ask her after, and she was certain he
had never said so. In a curious way this kept on
recurring to my mind, but I dismissed it. Mind
you, I hadn’t the remotest suspicion at the time.
I merely thought it curious.</p>

<p>“Then, of course, I had a letter from Sir James
the day after the murder.”</p>

<p>The other two looked at him in surprise.</p>

<p>“Oh, of course, you don’t know about that.”
He felt in his pocket and produced the letter,
which he read to them.</p>

<p>“Again I was struck with the fact that he had
been anxious not to have Collins told. It stuck
in my mind, until recalled, in a vivid manner.
I was in his flat, and we were discussing the
evidence of Mrs. Simmons, when he suddenly said
he heard a noise, and went to the door,
dramatically taking his pistol with him.</p>

<p>“Now, my hearing is very good, and I was
almost certain that there was no one there.
Outside the door he found a piece of paper with a
scribbled message on it. You know what that
was because it has been in the papers. We
searched the flat, but there was no one there.
When we came back he picked up the evidence
from the floor, and was reading it. He handed
it back to me, and I saw that the letter from
Sir James was with the other document. I could
see then that he had got hold of this by a clever
ruse, but I did not think it was anything more
than a trick, though I did not like it.</p>

<p>“That night I stayed at his flat, and had very
little sleep.</p>

<p>“I went over the scene at Leveson Square as I
had done many times, and then I recalled that
Collins had asked me to telephone for a doctor,
and remained at the door while I called the old
woman. When I came back he had spread mats
on the floor in order not to obscure footmarks.
He examined the floor himself, and said there
were three sets of footmarks, Sir James’ and the
unknown man’s, and then he said with a laugh,
‘and these, I think, are mine when I stepped to
lay the rug,’ and he took off his shoes, and they
fitted.</p>

<p>“I was so astounded that I had to help myself
to a whiskey and soda, in order not to show my
feelings, for the marks he found were under
where the rug had been. Since he had spread it
from the doorway, it must have been over the
marks. It may seem surprising, but in the
events which followed, this had entirely gone out
of my mind, but now came back with added
force. It is always said in my profession that
we must never eliminate any possibility,
however seemingly improbable.</p>

<p>“More or less for idle speculation, I began to
think, as I could not sleep. Facts came
crowding in. Mrs. Simmons had suppressed the fact
that Sanders had come in the afternoon, that I
did not know at the time, but I was sure that
she would not hide a murderer. If that were so,
then, as we found there was no possible means
of leaving the room, and she had seen him go to
his study and lock the door, the murder could
not have taken place then. What remained? It
must have taken place after the door was opened
by us. But the only person who was for a
moment alone with Sir James was Collins. But
the thing was absurd. We should have heard
the shot. I dismissed the whole thing from my
mind. But it would keep coming back. Collins
had turned up at my office at the very moment,
with a plausible story of having been called up
on the ’phone. He would, of course, have been
able to get official paper, and knew my signature
perfectly well. Motive—well, I have been too
long in the service to look for motive till I have
a case.</p>

<p>“The next day we went to Leveson Square, and
the Home Office doctor mentioned that the bullet
had only penetrated a little way into the skull.</p>

<p>“Forgive me for going into all this,” he said
to Mabel.</p>

<p>“Go on,” she said, bravely. “I must know the
truth.”</p>

<p>“I was on the alert, then, and I noticed that
Collins started talking about his grievance
against Boyce for letting the Press have details.
As a rule, he would have picked up a point like
that at once. The doctor had suggested a half
charge as the explanation, but another came to
my mind. An air pistol would make
comparatively little noise, especially if one shouted out
something at the same time. The whole
appearance of Sir James was as though he was in a
deep sleep. Here, again, my experience came in.
I had known a similar case in India.</p>

<p>“The man who did the murder would have to
be certain that he was asleep, or the plot would
fail. There was only one way. Drugging!
You might say why not poison, but here was no
need, and always the risk of poison being found.
A sleeping draught was all that was necessary,
and then I remembered that Collins had slipped
out the remark about Sir James feeling sleepy.
There were two glasses which had contained
whiskey, into which a sleeping draught could
easily have been put.</p>

<p>“Things were beginning to take shape. I must
confess I had suspicions of Lewis at first, but I
soon dismissed that, and kept it up on purpose.”</p>

<p>He paused and helped himself to coffee.</p>

<p>“You must understand,” he continued, “that
I had not a shred of evidence. If I had told my
suspicions I should have been laughed at, and
probably lost my job. Then there came the
complication of Boyce and Jackson. I saw he
was dead set on getting this man proved guilty,
as he was sure we should never get the real man.”</p>

<p>“Do you mean to say he was going to get an
innocent man convicted?” said Mabel, in horror.</p>

<p>“Not convicted. He would merely be put back
in an asylum, and I can assure you it happens
far oftener than the public know, that an
innocent man has to suffer. The police argue that
they have got hold of a man with a terrible past,
and that even if he is not the actual culprit he
deserves to be put away. You will find, in these
cases where murder is the crime, he is always
sent to penal servitude for life.”</p>

<p>“How dreadful,” said Mabel, “I thought our
justice was so good in England.”</p>

<p>“I am afraid what Mr. Sinclair says is true,”
said Allery. “I have never been mixed up with
criminal cases, but I have heard a good deal.
Please go on.”</p>

<p>“I saw,” said Sinclair, “that the real clue lay
in the letter I had received, and it was
disquieting that Collins had read it according to my
supposition. The key to the situation lay in
finding Sir Ronald Watson.</p>

<p>“I kept in touch with Collins’ movements, and
soon learnt of his visits here. I thought he was
here for another reason,” and he glanced
awkwardly at Mabel, “but the mystery he made
of it, led me to think he might have a double
motive. I did not in the least suspect the truth,
but thought he was trying to find the missing
man from this end, if you understand me?”</p>

<p>Allery nodded. “That’s all quite clear,” he
said.</p>

<p>“He turned up at my office the other day. I
could see he had something in the wind. Even
with his iron nerve the delay must have been
fretting him, for there was always the possibility
that we should get the man, and then the secret,
whatever it was, would be out.</p>

<p>“I tried a bluff. I asked him where Wilton-on-Sea
was, and said I wanted to go there. All I
knew was that it was close to this place. He
would not let me go alone, for he did not know
how much I knew, and so we came down, and
watched for those wretched days which have put
years on to my life.</p>

<p>“I had to pretend to take to drink to throw
dust in his eyes.</p>

<p>“When he found Sir Ronald in such a dramatic
fashion, I realised that things had come to a
crisis. There was danger, real and personal, in
the air. With supreme bluff he introduced me,
and I must confess he took me completely by
surprise. When I saw Lewis coming, for a moment
all my ideas crumpled like a pack of cards, and
I thought I had made a colossal fool of myself;
but when I realised who it was, I saw the whole
game. He would not let him out of his sight,
nor allow me a word with him.</p>

<p>“He saw his one chance was to get the
document out of him before I had a chance.</p>

<p>“But he was one too good for me at the end.
When he slipped out I never thought he would
make a bolt for it like that.”</p>

<p>He finished his story, and looked at the others.</p>

<p>Allery was scrutinising the end of his cigar.
Mabel was deeply distressed.</p>

<p>“You’ve been working pretty hard lately, I
suppose,” said the former.</p>

<p>Sinclair started: “I am always pretty hard at
work,” he said.</p>

<p>“You’ve been letting this thing prey on your
mind, I expect, a good deal?”</p>

<p>Sinclair stiffened. “Do you mean that I have
been imagining things?” he said.</p>

<p>“It is a most entertaining exhibition of
deduction,” said Allery.</p>

<p>“Of course, I have not had time to tell you all,”
said Sinclair, “and it may never come out.”</p>

<p>“It is a wicked lie,” said Mabel. “I will never
believe it.” Her eyes were blazing.</p>

<p>“I am sorry, Miss Watson,” stammered
Sinclair.</p>

<p>“I am going to lie down, Mr. Allery,” said she,
and walked from the room ignoring Sinclair.</p>

</div>

<div class="chapter" id="ch17">

<h2>Chapter XVII. <br/> The Wrong Letter</h2>

<p>In the stillness of the night the sound of a car
was heard. Sinclair went to the door and
waited.</p>

<p>Out of the blackness the car emerged, and
came to rest at the door. From the inside issued
Sanders. His face was set and grim. Without
a word he walked into the house, and into the
dining-room. Allery was sitting where he had
sat immovable all the evening. Sanders took off
his great coat, and took out his revolver and
tossed it on the table.</p>

<p>“Let me have a drink,” he said. “I’m done
up.”</p>

<p>“Tell us all about it,” said Sinclair, pouring
out a drink and handing it to him.</p>

<p>“Where’s Mabel?” said Sanders to Allery.</p>

<p>“She went to lie down, but said she wanted to
be called directly there was any news. I sent
for her when I heard the car.”</p>

<p>Mabel came in looking woefully drawn and
pale. She was in <i lang="fr">négligé</i> costume.</p>

<p>“Well?” she said in a dull voice.</p>

<p>“It’s all over. I chased the car, but we had no
chance of catching it. By a sheer fluke at the
little village of Paxton, we saw men standing
about which seemed strange at this hour, and
happened to ask whether anything had happened.
It appeared that a car had smashed up at the
bend. A bad smash.”</p>

<p>“And Mr. Collins?” said the girl.</p>

<p>“I should have thought your first thought
would have been for your brother,” said Sanders.</p>

<p>“Let’s have the news,” said Allery, crossly.</p>

<p>“I am thankful to say that Watson is safe and
hardly injured at all. I saw him, and he is
coming on as soon as he has made his statement to
the Police. Your Inspector came along, and he
is bringing Watson back.”</p>

<p>“And the other,” said Allery, almost in a
whisper.</p>

<p>“Dead!” said Sanders solemnly.</p>

<p>The silence was broken by a woman’s sobs.
Mabel had thrown herself down on the sofa, and
was weeping bitterly. Sanders was going to her,
but Allery motioned him back. “Let her alone,”
he said. “She has had an awful time of it.”</p>

<p>“You will be better in bed,” he said gently to
her. “Let me fetch your old nurse.”</p>

<p>The faithful old servant had been hovering
about all the evening. She came in and put her
arm about the weeping girl, and led her from
the room.</p>

<p>“Here he is,” said Allery, jumping to his feet,
as the sound of a car was heard. Watson and
the Inspector came in, the former looking very
white and shaken.</p>

<p>“A bad smash, sir,” said the Inspector to
Sinclair, “they must have been going at a cracking
pace. I have a full statement from witnesses.”</p>

<p>“Thank you, Miles,” said Sinclair, handing
him a drink. “I will send for you to-morrow,
and there will be a report to draw up. The
matter is more serious than you know. At present
a discreet silence is best, you understand.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir,” said the other, almost giving
a wink, and withdrew. There was an awkward
silence in the room.</p>

<p>“Whatever is the meaning of the whole
business,” said Watson. “I am all in the dark.”</p>

<p>“Did Collins tell you nothing on the way?”
said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“No, he came and said that it was absolutely
necessary for us to get to London at once. He
said the honour of my father’s name was
involved, and that the matter must be kept secret,
especially from the police. He hinted that there
was some secret connected with my father’s past
life. He was so insistent that I went blindly
with him.”</p>

<p>“You have had a lucky escape,” said Sinclair.
“Collins, in my view, was the murderer of your
father.”</p>

<p>“What!” said Watson, starting forward in his
seat.</p>

<p>“The others here are sceptical, they cannot
believe it. It all hangs on a document which
your father said he had hidden. He wrote and
told me.” He took the letter from his pocket,
and handed it to Watson, who read it with a
puzzled air.</p>

<p>“But I don’t understand. He says he hid it
where he once put his will in my presence.”</p>

<p>“Exactly.”</p>

<p>“Then why did Collins want to go to London?”</p>

<p>“To get it, I suppose,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“But it’s not there at all; it’s here,” said
Watson.</p>

<p>In breathless silence he rose and walked to the
fireplace. Reaching up, he turned the portrait
of Sir James from the wall. Behind was the oak
panelling. Sliding a panel back he put his hand
and drew out some papers, and brought them to
the light.</p>

<p>One was a dusty envelope, tied and sealed.
The other was new.</p>

<p>Picking up the first, Watson said with some
emotion:</p>

<p>“When we had our last interview in this room,
before I went to South America, my father told
me he had made a will cutting me completely
out, and had left this with Mr. Allery. Isn’t
that so?”</p>

<p>“That is quite correct,” said Allery. “I tried
to persuade him not to do so, in spite of the
opinion I then had of you, but he would not
make any change.”</p>

<p>“Well, he told me here, he had made another
dated after that. He said, ‘I am going to hide it
here. No one knows of the existence of this place,
and I am placing you on your honour. If you
come back having redeemed your character, and
with a clear conscience, I will bring out this will,
if I am alive. If I am dead you can produce it,
if you think you have made good.’ He was a
strange man and had curious ideas, but he was
absolutely just.”</p>

<p>“That accounts for the Will he made some
little time ago, bringing you back,” said Allery.
“I see it all now.”</p>

<p>“But the other document?” said Sinclair
impatiently. “Of course we supposed it was in the
London house. I thought he would have it with
him, and so did Collins, evidently.”</p>

<p>Watson picked up the envelope, and broke the
seal.</p>

<p>Within was a roll of paper, which he unfolded,
and laid on the table.</p>

<p>The feeling in the room was intense.</p>

<p>The light shone full on the writing, and the
men leant forward to scan the words. It seemed
almost as though the dead man was with them
speaking from the tomb his awful accusation.</p>

<p>Watson read in a firm voice.</p>

<p>“To my son.”</p>

<blockquote class="letter"><div>

  <p class="salutation">“My dearest boy,</p>

  <p>“If you ever read this I will have passed
  for ever from your sight. I have longed for you
  for years, and have bitterly repented the hasty
  action which drove you from my side, though at the
  time I thought I was acting for your ultimate
  good. I pray to God that you may be still alive,
  and may return to take your place here.</p>

  <p>“I can write no more as to this as the time is
  short. A great menace hangs over me, and I feel
  that my life may be taken at any time. I will
  be brief.</p>

  <p>“In my capacity of Home Secretary it was
  necessary for me to be acquainted with the most
  dreadful secrets of crime, and criminals.</p>

  <p>“Among the most baffling problems of modern
  times has been the personality of a master
  criminal, a blackmailer, forger and rogue, whose
  diabolical cunning had eluded the police completely.
  Even his name and residence were entirely
  unknown, though he had gone under several aliases
  for blackmailing purposes. He seemed to know
  every shady secret in Society.”</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>“Webb or Atkins,” said Sinclair excitedly.
“The man we have been trying to find for years.”</p>

<p>“Go on,” said Allery.</p>

<blockquote class="letter"><div>

  <p>“Some few days ago I received a letter from
  Sylvester Collins, the Investigator, who was
  actually trying to find this criminal. Several of the
  highest in the land had been asking me to locate
  this man, as their lives were being made a misery
  by him. Collins promised to send a report on
  the matter. When I opened the letter he sent
  me, the whole world seemed to go round, and for
  minutes I could not collect my thoughts. Instead
  of the letter I had expected, there was a
  typewritten document to the Duke of ⸻ demanding
  instant payment of a very large sum, and in the
  case of refusal a threat that incriminating
  documents of the worst character would be sent to
  the Duchess.</p>

  <p>“It was on perfectly plain paper, with no
  address, but giving careful instructions as to how the
  money was to be paid in Paris.</p>

  <p>“Even then I did not grasp the full meaning of
  what I read. The note had come by hand, straight
  from Collins but within a few moments I received
  a letter by hand from the Duke, containing the
  note I was expecting from Collins, which, he
  said, had evidently been sent to him in error.
  There could be only one explanation, however
  improbable it appeared. The two letters had
  come from the same person.</p>

  <p>“I went at once to the Duke, and in strict
  confidence told him of what had happened. He told
  me the whole dreadful story.</p>

  <p>“This man Webb—Julian Webb—had been
  draining him like a cask.</p>

  <p>“Of course, I could have called in the police,
  but such terrible issues were at stake, and the
  scandal would have been so profound, that I chose
  the other course.</p>

  <p>“I knew the risk and counted the cost. I sent
  for Collins, and faced him with the letter, and the
  situation. He tried to bluff, and of course denied
  the whole thing. I told him quite plainly that if
  I put the matter into the hands of the police, as
  it was my duty to do, it would mean disgrace
  and a long term of penal servitude for him; but
  that I was willing to save a scandal, to let him
  leave the country after he had handed over the
  incriminating documents. I informed him that
  when he had gone I should place the whole thing
  in the hands of Scotland Yard. He asked me for
  a week to consider the matter, and make his
  arrangements.</p>

  <p>“He is coming to see me to-morrow in Town,
  and has agreed to bring the documents with him.</p>

  <p>“I feel that, to such a man, the disgrace and
  flight will not appeal, and my life is now in grave
  danger. I have promised, perhaps somewhat
  rashly, not to reveal anything till I have seen
  him, so I can take no steps, but I am writing this
  and hiding it where you only will know, and if
  you come back, you will know what has happened
  to your father.</p>

  <p>“If all is well, I shall myself destroy this when
  this danger is past.</p>

  <p>“I can write no more. If you should ever read
  this you will know how to act.</p>

  <p>“Good-bye my boy, and think kindly of your
  father, who treated you harshly, but has always
  loved you.</p>

  <p>“Look after Mabel. If I am dead it is my wish
  that she marry Eric, who is a good boy. I have
  been very selfish in this matter.</p>

  <p class="endsignature">James Watson.”</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>Well, here it was at last.</p>

<p>Every one of the listeners remained lost in
his own thoughts.</p>

<p>Ronald buried his face in his hands.</p>

<p>Allery broke the silence. Leaning across to
Sinclair, he took his hand, and said, “I apologise.
You were right and we were wrong, but who
would have suspected it?”</p>

<p>“Please don’t apologise, Mr. Allery,” said
Sinclair. “It was a terrible shock to me, and as I
told you, it was only last evening that I could
make up my mind.</p>

<p>“I think everything is clear now. Collins had
no intention of going abroad. He got round Sir
James to give him that week to mature his plans
for as cunning and clever a murder as was ever
planned.</p>

<p>“The visit in the afternoon, with all its
precautions, was absolutely necessary, so that he
could drug him, though how he managed to get
him to take a whiskey and soda I cannot think.
Probably he promised to agree with everything,
otherwise Sir James would have immediately
sent to Scotland Yard. Sir James’ promise then
held good, and Collins would say he would bring
all the necessary documents. After he had gone,
some misgiving must have come to Sir James.
Perhaps he was feeling drowsy, and suspicion
of evil was growing in his mind.</p>

<p>“Anyway he wrote that letter, which did not
break his promise, as you see.”</p>

<p>“There is a possibility, which is like the man’s
daring,” said Allery.</p>

<p>“Collins may have gambled on Sir James
taking a whiskey after he had gone. There are
tasteless sleeping drugs which could have been
put in the glass. You remember the room was
in partial darkness.”</p>

<p>“I will go and break it to Mabel. She must
know the truth. It is better that I should tell
her,” and he glanced at Sanders.</p>

<p>Without another word he went out.</p>

<p>“What are you going to do about the whole
thing?” said Ronald, turning to Sinclair.</p>

<p>“I shall have to lay the matter before Boyce,
and of course Jackson must be exonerated, but
I hope that nothing will be done. It would rake
up the whole scandal which Sir James gave his
life to hide, and the man is beyond the reach of
the Law. I see no point in a sensational
disclosure.”</p>

<p>“I am glad,” said Watson. “I would rather
have it so.”</p>

<p>Mabel came into the room with Allery. She
held her head proudly, and was dry-eyed, though
very white. She walked straight to Sanders.</p>

<p>“Eric,” she said. “I have had a terrible lesson,
and I do not suppose I shall ever forget it. I
have misjudged you, and you were right in your
opinion. If you wish our engagement to be
announced, I am willing. And please forgive me
for my temporary madness. I give you my word
it was nothing more. I can never forgive
myself.”</p>

<p>Allery exchanged glances with the others, who
quietly rose, and slipped from the room.</p>

<p class="finis">The End</p>