<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VIII: Enter Mr. Allery</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Enter Mr. Allery</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>After the inquest there was nothing to keep Miss Watson in London. A sad cortège started from Leveson Square after dark, for, in the circumstances, they had no wish for public display.</p>
			<p>The body of the dead statesman was being taken to Devonshire for burial. In all the arrangements Collins had played an important but unobtrusive part, and now, on the departure platform, he had quietly seen to her comfort in the little ways a woman appreciates.</p>
			<p>Papers were ready, seats booked at the dining table, and the carriage reserved by a well-tipped guard.</p>
			<p>Eric Sanders had already gone on, as it was necessary to go through all the dead man’s papers, and, as private secretary, he was assisting the police in this matter.</p>
			<p>An aged and lachrymose aunt had turned up from somewhere, and was acting chaperon.</p>
			<p>The old nurse had been relegated to what the aunt called her proper place. Collins had completely won the heart of the old nurse with an easy courtesy which is neither patronage nor familiarity, and she had sworn by him ever since he had taken them to the theatre. On that occasion he had, with great tact, laid himself out to amuse the old lady, while Mabel was left to her sulky Eric, which accentuated the contrast.</p>
			<p>Now he had taken as much care in seeing to the comfort of the two old servants (for the butler was going back with them), as with Miss Watson herself⁠—a fact she was quick to note and appreciate.</p>
			<p>They were standing on the platform, waiting for the train to start, and Mabel gave him her hand.</p>
			<p>“I am most awfully grateful to you for all you have done,” she said. “I don’t know how I should have got on without you. This has been a very trying time, but it would have been far worse but for your management.” He was pleased at the compliment.</p>
			<p>“It has been a real pleasure to do what I could, and no trouble, for I have had to be in the thick of things, from my position.”</p>
			<p>A cloud crossed her face.</p>
			<p>“Yes, of course. You are trying to find the criminal.”</p>
			<p>“I am trying first to find your brother.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I hope you do. It would be so comforting at this time if he were here.”</p>
			<p>“I will let you know directly I hear anything.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, but I hope you will do more than that. You must come and see us when we are more settled,” she added wistfully.</p>
			<p>They were joined by Mr. Allery, the senior partner of Allery &amp; Watkins, the family lawyers. Collins and he had seen a good deal of each other during these few days, and had grown to like each other.</p>
			<p>He took Mabel’s hand in a fatherly way.</p>
			<p>“Now, you must not get down there and fret and worry. It’s all terribly sad, but you are young, and when you have got over the first grief, you must rouse yourself up. There’s nothing worse than moping.”</p>
			<p>“Then the best way you can help is to come and see me,” she said with a smile, “and bring Mr. Collins with you. You are both golfers, and there are several excellent links near us.”</p>
			<p>“I shall be delighted,” said the lawyer. “I need a change. Only you must remind me, or I shall never come,” and he laughed in a genial, full-blooded way.</p>
			<p>He had a charming, old-world courtesy, and what in doctors is called a good bedside manner.</p>
			<p>The train moved off, leaving the two men standing on the platform.</p>
			<p>“Poor girl,” said Allery. “I have known her since she was a baby. It’s a sad blow to her, but, between ourselves, it may be a good thing. Sir James was a fine man, but he was very selfish with her. She was absolutely tied up with him, and could go nowhere. He warned off all possible suitors, and made her live the life of a nun.”</p>
			<p>“I gather that Sanders rather bit his fingers there.” Allery looked at him shrewdly.</p>
			<p>“You haven’t taken long to find that out,” he said. “Yes, I believe he did. He is an able young fellow, of good family, and in every way desirable, but for some reason Sir James would not hear of an engagement. Of course, it was very awkward, as he was his private secretary, and Sir James was too fair minded a man to get rid of him for domestic reasons which would have ruined his prospects. But it couldn’t have gone on. He actually talked to me about altering his will if Mabel did not give Eric up.”</p>
			<p>Collins looked interested.</p>
			<p>“We can’t stand talking here. Let me give you a lift in my car. Where can I take you?”</p>
			<p>“That’s most kind of you. I have an hour before my train goes, so I shall just go to my club. You’d better come in for a few minutes.”</p>
			<p>In the club smoking room, after a general talk, Collins gently led the conversation back to the subject about which he wanted information.</p>
			<p>“You knew young Watson, I suppose?” The lawyer’s face hardened.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” he said shortly, “I knew him. A wastrel.”</p>
			<p>“I rather gathered,” said Collins, “that he was just a somewhat wild youth, who went the pace at Oxford.”</p>
			<p>“I am afraid it did not stop at that,” said the other, and closed his mouth in a way that indicated he did not wish to continue. Collins saw it, and asked no more.</p>
			<p>Allery, however, volunteered one bit of information.</p>
			<p>“Sir James made a curious will. It will be proved soon, and so there is no particular secret. If his son was found, and was willing to settle down in Devonshire, he was to have a half share after certain small legacies had been paid. If not, the whole was to go to Mabel. She gets half in any case. It was left to me to decide whether he was fulfilling the conditions. That’ll be a nice task.”</p>
			<p>“Supposing we can’t find him.”</p>
			<p>“Then Mabel takes her half and the interest on the other, which remains in trust, until it is decided that he is dead. The discretion rests with me.”</p>
			<p>“A very reasonable arrangement,” said Collins.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
