<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter II. <br/> Speculations</h2>

<p>Collins, Sinclair and Boyce had just
discussed an excellent glass of port after a
frugal but well-cooked meal at Collins’ flat.</p>

<p>The room was tastefully but not luxuriously
furnished, and was stamped with the
individuality of the occupier.</p>

<p>Over the mantelpiece was an oar, a relic of the
time when Collins had stroked his college boat to
victory in the “Mays.”</p>

<p>Four selected pictures were on the walls, but
the eye was caught by ‘Napoleon, the Last Phase,’
which seemed to dominate the room, with its
tortured sadness.</p>

<p>Collins rose, rang the bell for coffee, and
handed round cigars.</p>

<p>During the meal all reference to the tragedy of
the day had been dropped by tacit consent. Now
each of the men drew up his chair to the fire,
and prepared to discuss the affair⁠—in spite of
the heat of the day the nights were cold.</p>

<p>Collins suggested, with an irony which was
lost on the others, that Boyce should give them
the light of his wisdom on the problem.</p>

<p>This he hastily declined, and Sinclair asked
Collins to open the ball. Here he was in his
element.</p>

<p>“I will go through the facts, and Sinclair can
check me.” The others nodded assent. The
cigars were good and the chairs comfortable.
They were in the right mood for listening.</p>

<p>“First then,” said Collins, “there are four
possibilities. It may have been suicide, but the
doctor does not think that is possible. There was
no blackening round the wound, and it would
not be likely that a man could shoot himself
through the head and throw the revolver away
from him.”</p>

<p>“But what about the telephone messages and
the newspaper article?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“We are coming to that, but they may have
nothing to do with the crime.”</p>

<p>The other two exchanged glances.</p>

<p>“Then we come to accident. That is a
possibility. A man may have tried blackmail or to
extract some secret, and fired by accident. Here
again the position of the body and the whole
arrangement of the room are against such an
idea.”</p>

<p>“Then there is only murder?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“Not quite,” said the other. “There is first the
work of a madman.”</p>

<p>“But that is nevertheless murder,” said
Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Yes; but we then have to proceed on an
entirely different basis. If this is the work of a
lunatic, it explains the telephone messages and
the newspaper article. It is just the sort of
thing that a madman with an inordinate vanity
would do. And we need not look for motive. If
that is so, our task will be simplified.”</p>

<p>The others agreed.</p>

<p>“Now we come to the fourth. A cold-blooded
and deliberate murder, of which each detail was
planned beforehand so accurately that the
criminal had the effrontery to inform the Press
before it was done.”</p>

<p>“That is the most probable,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“I agree, but we must not lose sight of the
others.”</p>

<p>“Now for our facts. At sometime before 2.30
when the box was cleared, a letter was posted at
Westminster Bridge Post Office, the contents of
which you know. At 3.00 o’clock a man calls on
the Home Secretary who is either expected or
well known to Sir James.”</p>

<p>“How do you know that?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“Surely,” said Collins; “he opened the door
himself, and takes him straight to his library.”</p>

<p>“This man may have been the actual murderer
or not. We are here going on the statements of
the housekeeper, which may turn out to be a
tissue of lies; but I do not think so, she is not a
good enough actress for that. This man stays for
half an hour, and is let out by the Home
Secretary. After that Sir James writes a letter and
posts it himself. He returns and goes to his room
complaining of feeling sleepy.”</p>

<p>“Did he?” said Sinclair, “I did not hear that.”</p>

<p>“Certainly,” said Collins, “Mrs. Simmons said
so, if she is reliable. Very good, he locks himself
in, and asks not to be disturbed. Here he
remains, as far as we know, till the murder takes
place. We find the door locked and the
windows fastened, with no apparent means of escape.
There is no one in the room.”</p>

<p>“By Jove, he was a cool hand,” said Sinclair.
“All the time he was talking with Sir James the
letter was on its way to the Central News, and
might have arrived. He must have calculated
things pretty well.”</p>

<p>“Undoubtedly, and he probably knew that
there was no telephone in the house.”</p>

<p>Collins got up and handed round the cigar box.
When he resumed his seat he continued, and his
face was grave.</p>

<p>“A Home Secretary is very open to attack. He
may have refused to pardon a criminal, and the
man when he comes out from penal servitude or
imprisonment will seek revenge. He is always
getting threatening letters. Then there are
murderers whom he reprieves, and the relatives of
the murdered man may seek revenge. Again,
there are political fanatics. You remember the
Phœnix Park murders.”</p>

<p>“Of course,” said Boyce, “the whole staff will
be put on to-morrow to investigate this side of
the question.” Collins nodded.</p>

<p>“Then there is a personal revenge. His life
appears to be a blameless and honourable one,
but one never knows; there are skeletons in the
best of cupboards.”</p>

<p>“There was a ne’er-do-well son,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Chut, don’t let’s come to any personalities
until we have more data; we shall be following
wandering fires.”</p>

<p>Sinclair was not to be silenced.</p>

<p>“What do you make of the behaviour of Lewis
when I asked him to come with me?” he said.</p>

<p>“I don’t pretend to make anything of it. It
may have the most natural of explanations.”</p>

<p>“I have never known him to behave like that
before,” he persisted. Collins ignored him.</p>

<p>“We have five things to bear in mind, or shall
I put it we have five questions to answer:</p>

<p>“Who sent the letter to the Central News, and
for what object?</p>

<p>“Who called us up on the telephone, and why?</p>

<p>“Who was the man who called at three?</p>

<p>“How did the murderer get in, and how did he
escape?</p>

<p>“What was the motive of the murderer?”</p>

<p>“You’ve left out the most important of all,”
said Boyce, “who was the murderer?”</p>

<p>“Yes, of course, there’s always that,” said
Collins with an indulgent smile.</p>

<p>“You’ve put it very well,” said Sinclair, who
was in a genial mood after Collins’ excellent
fare.</p>

<p>“We must find out all we can about the letter
and envelope.”</p>

<p>“It was a most extraordinarily good forgery,
that signature,” said Boyce, “I would have sworn
in any court it was yours.”</p>

<p>Sinclair’s face flushed. “Are you suggesting
anything, sir,” he said.</p>

<p>“Of course not, my dear fellow, only it was,
wasn’t it?”</p>

<p>“Then you must try and find out about the
telephone calls,” intervened Collins.</p>

<p>“I shall have Mrs. Simmons up to the Yard and
take down a full statement,” said Boyce, anxious
to show he had a grasp of the situation.</p>

<p>“All right, I must put a few things together
and get off. We will each carry on with our own
line of research.”</p>

<p>And he went into the next room.</p>

<p>“Has he got something up his sleeve?” said
Boyce. “It’s not like him to go off when there’s
an interesting problem to solve. It can’t be just
to break the news, he knows nothing of these
people.”</p>

<p>“He’s pretty deep, and it may be he saw
something that I didn’t,” said Sinclair, modestly.
“He seemed to think Mrs. Simmons was holding
something back.”</p>

<p>Collins came back with a small suit-case.</p>

<p>“I will let you know when I am coming back,”
he said, “and we will meet and compare notes.
This will make a most almighty stir, and if the
Prime Minister thinks it is the work of an
ex-convict or anything of that sort, you will get it
hot.”</p>

<p>Boyce made a wry face.</p>

<p>“I am afraid so,” he said.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
