<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter VI. <br/> At Leveson Square</h2>

<p>The blinds were drawn at the house in
Leveson Square, and a crowd was still
gazing up at the blank windows. There is
always something gruesome in drawn blinds, and
the policeman standing at the door added to the
air of mystery and dark deeds.</p>

<p>Collins and Sinclair, refreshed by an excellent
breakfast, arrived in Collins’ car. They had been
to the Yard first.</p>

<p>Within, the appearance of the house was as
though a bomb had been dropped. All the oak
panelling from the library was piled in the hall,
with furniture and books. The library door was
open, and the floor was covered with plaster.
The men had made small holes in the ceiling at
various places, as well as having examined the
floor above. The search had been very thorough.</p>

<p>In a room upstairs lay the silent figure of the
dead statesman.</p>

<p>It had been decided that the body should
remain in the house and the doctor’s examination
had taken place at the house.</p>

<p>A Home Office expert had conducted this, and
the fussy little doctor, who had been summoned
at the first, had wormed his way in to assist.
He was full of importance.</p>

<p>They met the doctors in the dining-room.</p>

<p>“Well?” said Sinclair. “Have you found
anything?”</p>

<p>“We have extracted the bullet,” said
Broughton, the Home Office doctor. “As might have
been expected, it fits the empty cartridge, and is
exactly similar to the other five.”</p>

<p>“What a pity,” said Collins.</p>

<p>The doctor looked at him in surprise.</p>

<p>Sinclair gave a laugh.</p>

<p>“Nothing straightforward satisfies Collins,”
he said. “He loves mystery. He would have
liked you to have found a rifle bullet, or no bullet
at all.”</p>

<p>“There’s no accounting for tastes,” said the
other. “For my part I am glad enough when I
find things fitting in.”</p>

<p>“And that’s all?” said Collins.</p>

<p>“There’s one thing I can’t make out, it’s
probably nothing, but it’s queer. I have had a very
extensive experience with this sort of thing, as
you know. The bullet had only just penetrated
the brain. Now, a revolver bullet of that
calibre, fired at the distance it was, should have
smashed the back of the skull, and made a
dreadful wound. It is the heavy Army type. I sent a
policeman for a sheep’s head, which is harder
than the human skull, and fired at it in the back
garden. Look at the mess it has made,” and he
showed them the gruesome sight.</p>

<p>“Have you any suggestion to make?” said
Sinclair.</p>

<p>“The only thing I can think of is that a half
charge was used to deaden the noise. But then,
why put a half charge in one cartridge only?”</p>

<p>“I give it up,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>Collins was taking little notice. He was in a
furious mood. The morning papers had come
out with full details, not only of the crime, but
of the telephone messages and the letter to the
Central News, which made excellent copy, but
was in the highest degree indiscreet.</p>

<p>“Who the devil has done this?” he had said in
the car.</p>

<p>Sinclair had hastily disclaimed all knowledge
of it.</p>

<p>“Then it must be Boyce,” said Collins. “He is
the only other that knows about it. The fool!”</p>

<p>Presently the man himself came in, puffing and
blowing, for he had walked.</p>

<p>Collins tackled him at once.</p>

<p>“I say, Boyce, did you tell the Press all those
details which have come out to-day?”</p>

<p>Boyce looked uncomfortable.</p>

<p>“No,” he said. “I have told the Press nothing.
I only told the facts to one or two of the Cabinet
who were asking me about things yesterday.”</p>

<p>“Then you’ve put your foot into it properly,”
said Collins, bluntly. Boyce began to bluster
after the manner of a man who knows he is in
the wrong.</p>

<p>“I don’t see that any harm is done, and
anyway it is a matter for my Department to decide.
I really don’t see what it has to do with you,
Collins.”</p>

<p>“You’ll see,” said the other, shortly.</p>

<p>Boyce was offended, and, like men of his kind,
began to sulk. He ignored Collins, and turned to
Sinclair.</p>

<p>“Any news of the missing man? I see you
have a full description of him, but no photo.
That’s a pity.”</p>

<p>“We could not find one, sir,” said Sinclair.
“He seems to have been one of those men who
do not care to have their photo taken.”</p>

<p>“Suspicious, very, that,” said Boyce.</p>

<p>Collins laughed contemptuously.</p>

<p>Boyce shot him an angry look.</p>

<p>“We must lay him by the heels soon⁠—he won’t
be able to get out of the country,” he said in a
challenging way.</p>

<p>“I don’t think we can do any more here,” said
Collins.</p>

<p>“You’ve searched all these books and the
furniture for any documents?” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“What do you expect to find?” said Boyce.</p>

<p>“One never knows,” said Sinclair hastily.</p>

<p>The man addressed said, “Yes, sir, and we have
been through all his papers as you told us; there
appears to be nothing of importance. He was
very methodical, and did not appear to keep any
private documents here. Perhaps they are in
Devonshire.”</p>

<p>“We are trying to find the whereabouts of the
new Baronet, who was last heard of in Monte
Video,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“I see you are,” said Boyce; “but I should have
thought that would have been for the relatives
to do. It does not seem a Home Office matter.”</p>

<p>“Perhaps not,” said Sinclair; “but as he was
Home Secretary?”</p>

<p>“Exactly, as an act of courtesy, perhaps,” and
Boyce assumed a manner of importance. He had
become a prominent man in the last few days.
Sinclair breathed a sigh of relief. He was
thinking of the letter which he had no intention of
showing to anyone else.</p>

<p>There was a ring at the door, and the
policeman on duty brought in a telegram.</p>

<p>“For you, sir,” he said, handing it to Collins.</p>

<p>He read it while the others watched. Not a
muscle moved.</p>

<p>“No answer, thanks,” he said to the policeman,
and put it in his pocket.</p>

<p>“Anything important?” said Boyce, officiously.</p>

<p>“Oh, no,” said the other.</p>

<p>He turned into the library, and looked round.</p>

<p>“What the devil is he doing with telegrams
sent to this house?” said Boyce, irritably.</p>

<p>The remark called for no answer.</p>

<p>The telegram was from Miss Watson to say
she was coming to Town that afternoon, and
would he meet her.</p>

<p>It did not ask for an answer, which pleased
him somehow. He strolled out of the room, and
said:</p>

<p>“What a pity some of our spook merchants
cannot come and make an incantation or beat
tom-toms or something, and conjure up the scene
for us. It would be most interesting.”</p>

<p>“What is more important than mere interest,”
said Boyce, “is to bring the criminal to justice.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I suppose so, but it’s so dull when the
problem is solved, especially if it turns out banal.
It’s like a game of cricket, when you expect an
exciting ending, and the other side all get out for
about 20.”</p>

<p>“I am afraid I do not play cricket,” said Boyce,
curtly.</p>

<p>Collins eyed him, “No, you wouldn’t,” he said,
and made an enemy of him forthwith.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
