<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter VII. <br/> Valuable Information</h2>

<p>Collins was punctual to the minute at
Paddington. He had dressed himself up
for the occasion, though he felt contempt for so
doing. The express from Wilton-on-Sea was up
to time.</p>

<p>From a first-class compartment Mabel Watson
descended. Her face was white and calm, but
she wore no veil. Collins walked towards the
door and stopped. After the girl, a man
descended from the carriage. He was tall and
dressed in good taste, but had a weak looking
face, with a wandering light moustache and
straw-coloured hair.</p>

<p>His eyes were a cold blue. He was the sort of
man that women ‘rave about.’ Collins took
careful stock of the man, and then advanced with
raised hat. The girl gave a smile of recognition,
and shook hands.</p>

<p>“It is very good of you to come and meet me,”
she said. “This is Mr. Eric Sanders, Mr. Collins.” The men shook hands and exchanged a
look not too friendly. They were antipathetical.</p>

<p>“I have brought my old nurse with me, and
John. I shall go to an hotel, of course. I
suppose our house is in the hands of the police,” and
she shuddered. “We stayed at Ackroyd’s when
we had let our house one year,” she said.</p>

<p>“A very good hotel, and quite convenient,” said
Collins.</p>

<p>“John, tell the porter to get a taxi, please,”
she said.</p>

<p>“I have brought my car,” Collins interposed,
“and if you care to come with me, the servants
can come on with the luggage.”</p>

<p>“That is very kind of you, but I will bring
Nurse, if you don’t mind.”</p>

<p>Sanders had been standing by, gloomy and
resentful.</p>

<p>Collins led the way to the car.</p>

<p>“Will you come with me, then?” said he.</p>

<p>“I should like to,” she replied. “Eric, will you
take care of Nurse?” She got into her seat, and
Sanders, with not too good a grace, helped the
old nurse into the back seat.</p>

<p>The drive was all too short. In spite of the
terrible cloud hanging over her, her youth was
strong, and she felt the relief of getting away
from Devon and her thoughts there.</p>

<p>They had tea in a private sitting room, and
Collins laid himself out to keep her mind off the
tragedy.</p>

<p>“You must come to a theatre to-night,” he
said.</p>

<p>“Oh, I couldn’t possibly,” she answered.</p>

<p>“If I may say so, I don’t agree with you. I
know what is in your mind. You don’t think it
would be right after what has happened, but if
you stay in, you will only brood over things and
make yourself miserable, and,” he added
earnestly, “I am sure your father would not have wished
you to do that. I am not asking you to forget him,
but you have had a bad ordeal to go through,
and must keep yourself going.”</p>

<p>“What do you think, Eric?” she said,
addressing Sanders, who had been silent during the
meal.</p>

<p>“Of course, you must please yourself, but I
should hardly have thought it was quite the
thing,” he said.</p>

<p>There was something in his tone which
annoyed her.</p>

<p>“Why not?” she said.</p>

<p>“Well,” he said, floundering. “I suppose it’s
a matter of taste, but in the circumstances⁠—”</p>

<p>She gave a toss of her head, and turned to
Collins.</p>

<p>“Thank you; yes, I will accept your kind
invitation.”</p>

<p>“I hope you will join us, too,” said he politely
to Sanders.</p>

<p>For a moment he was about to refuse, then he
said, “Thank you, very much.”</p>

<p>“Then I will get a box for four. Of course,
Nurse will come as well.”</p>

<p>“That is very kind of you. It would be a great
treat for her. Only in that case you must both
dine here first. You know I feel very guilty in
doing this, but it will only be a very quiet
dinner.”</p>

<p>“I quite understand,” said Collins, “and I will
get a box for Gilbert and Sullivan’s. I know the
management there, and it is just what you want,
something soothing and not too gay. Now, I
know you will want to go to Leveson Square. I
will go and see that everything is all right for
you there. Come on, in about half an hour’s
time.”</p>

<p>He saw with a thrill of pleasure the look of
gratitude come to her expressive eyes.</p>

<p>After he had taken his leave, she turned to
Sanders.</p>

<p>“I think you might be a little more gracious
to Mr. Collins, he is most kind.”</p>

<p>“You seem to have made great friends with
him at short notice,” he said, churlishly.</p>

<p>She bridled up. “And if I have, I suppose I
can choose my friends.”</p>

<p>“And forget the old one for the new.”</p>

<p>“What nonsense. You are behaving like a
spoilt child. I have watched you all the time.”</p>

<p>“What do you know of this fellow, anyway?
He is only a sort of policeman. I suppose he
didn’t tell you that?”</p>

<p>“If it is any satisfaction to you, he did, and
perhaps we had better stop discussing Mr. Collins any more.”</p>

<p>He got up and wandered round the room.</p>

<p>“I suppose I had better go,” he said.</p>

<p>Her lip curled with contempt. “You can please
yourself, but I should hardly have thought that
my oldest male friend would have deserted me
at such a time.”</p>

<p>“Forgive me. I will say no more. Of course
I will stay with you.”</p>

<p>“All right. It is time we started for Leveson
Square.”</p>

<p>“What a brute I have been,” he said. “I
ought to have thought of you.”</p>

<p>“Would you fetch a taxi?” she said.</p>

<p>Collins was at the door when they drove up.</p>

<p>He bowed slightly to Mabel, in the deferential
but not subservient manner of a courtier.</p>

<p>“Everything is ready for you,” he whispered.
“I brought your old nurse with me. I knew you
would like to have her here. She is waiting in
the bedroom.” She felt a sense of pleasure at
the thoughtfulness.</p>

<p>“I will go up,” she said.</p>

<p>The two men were left alone in the hall.</p>

<p>“I suppose you know this place well,” said
Collins, carelessly.</p>

<p>“Of course. I was private secretary to Sir
James,” said the other, stiffly.</p>

<p>Collins lit a cigarette, and offered his case.
The other could not well refuse. “Thanks,”
said he.</p>

<p>“This is a wretched business,” said Collins.</p>

<p>“It is very terrible, but of course you are used
to these crimes in your profession.”</p>

<p>“Yes,” he said solemnly, “and we get used to
all kinds of criminals,” and he looked into the
empty library.</p>

<p>“Have you any theory as to who did the
murder?” said Sanders.</p>

<p>“I never allow myself the luxury of theories,”
said Collins.</p>

<p>“Prig,” said the other under his breath.</p>

<p>“It is strange how the murderer escaped, isn’t
it?” said Collins. “I wonder if you ever heard
tell of any secret doors, or trap doors, or
anything of that sort?”</p>

<p>“Oh, really, are we back in the Middle Ages?
This is a modern, London house. Besides, by the
look of things your men have had a pretty
thorough hunt.”</p>

<p>“When did you see Sir James last?” said
Collins, lighting another cigarette from his old one.</p>

<p>“Oh, I was with him at the Home Office in the
morning of the day.”</p>

<p>“Fancy, and you little thought then that you
would never see him again alive,” said Collins
musingly.</p>

<p>The other was silent.</p>

<p>“Do you know,” continued Collins, “you
mentioned the Middle Ages. How much easier
detection was then. All you did was to parade suspects
in front of the departed, and when the right man
arrived blood gushed out from his mouth, and
you spotted a winner every time.”</p>

<p>“What a horribly morbid mind you must have,”
said Sanders with a shudder.</p>

<p>“I am glad I am not mixed up with crime.”</p>

<p>“I have not any great sense of horror of crime,
murder least of all. There are so many reasons
for that,” and he looked straight at the other
man.</p>

<p>“Miss Watson will be down soon. I hope it has
not upset her too much. You are an old friend.
Wouldn’t you like to go up and see.”</p>

<p>“No, thanks. I would rather not. But I will
knock at the door.”</p>

<p>He went up the stairs, and Collins followed
him with his eyes.</p>

<p>“I wonder if that blood would gush out,” he
said to himself.</p>

<p>Miss Watson stayed in London until the
inquest was over. This was hurried forward out
of deference to the position of the deceased. She
had to give evidence of identification.</p>

<p>There was nothing fresh in spite of the efforts
of those engaged on the case. Tremendous
excitement was aroused, not only because of the
fact that the murdered man was a Cabinet
Minister, but on account of the bizarre events which
had surrounded the mystery.</p>

<p>All efforts to trace the ownership of the
revolver had failed. Lewis’s landlady could only
state that she thought it was his, as it looked
like it. But a Webley is so common a type that
this did not count for much. The number was
an old one, and the weapon had probably passed
through many hands.</p>

<p>The police did not press their case against
any particular individual, and the jury returned
the usual verdict against some person or persons
unknown.</p>

<p>Collins had been most assiduous in his
attempts to make Miss Watson’s part as small a
one as possible, and had endeavoured to keep her
spirits up, without intruding himself. Sanders,
in spite of all his efforts, was still sulky, and
plunged into the work of going over Sir James’
papers, which fell to his lot.</p>

<p>The ordeal was over, and all those women of
Society who had crammed themselves into the
court were trying to sort themselves out again.
Opinion was about equally divided between Lewis
and a lunatic as the villain of the piece.</p>

<p>Collins sought the back room where the
witnesses had gone.</p>

<p>His face was stern. He walked directly to
Mrs. Simmons, who was sniffing in a corner.</p>

<p>“I would like to have a word with you, if I
may,” he said.</p>

<p>“Certainly, sir,” she replied.</p>

<p>“Would you kindly come into the next room,
there are too many people here?” She rose and
followed him without a word.</p>

<p>In the little side room he faced her.</p>

<p>“Mrs. Simmons, you gave evidence on oath.
You know the nature of an oath?”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, sir,” she replied, without hesitation.</p>

<p>“You swore to tell the truth, didn’t you?”</p>

<p>“Why, yes, sir, of course.”</p>

<p>“Very good. In your evidence you said that
you did not know who the man was who called on
Sir James?”</p>

<p>With all her control, a look of relief passed
rapidly over her face.</p>

<p>“Quite right, sir, I had no idea. I could not
see him. It might have been you, sir, for all I
know.”</p>

<p>“It won’t do, Mrs. Simmons. You were asked
whether anyone else had come to see Sir James
after that, and you said ‘No.’ That was a lie.”</p>

<p>If one has seen a child’s balloon touched with
a lighted cigarette, the collapse of this woman
was not more complete.</p>

<p>She seemed to shrivel up. She tried to speak,
but all she could do was to lick her lips and open
her mouth.</p>

<p>Collins waited.</p>

<p>“You had better tell me,” he said. “If I had
wanted to have this known publicly, couldn’t I
have had this out in court? Shall I tell you
who called?”</p>

<p>“Oh, no, no, sir,” she moaned, raising her hand
as though she were threatened with a blow.</p>

<p>“You know perfectly well that Mr. Eric
Sanders came, and you let him in?”</p>

<p>“Oh, sir, how do you know?” she said, with a
look of blank astonishment.</p>

<p>“The best thing for you is to tell me exactly
what did happen. Perhaps I know more than
you think.”</p>

<p>She looked at him in a frightened way.</p>

<p>“Oh, sir, he had nothing to do with the
murder, sir, I am sure he didn’t.”</p>

<p>“Tell me exactly what did occur, or must I
call the police?” he said.</p>

<p>“What happened was this, sir,” she said,
gazing round her, as if for help. “After the visitor
had gone, and I am sure I wish I knew who he
was, I was in the dining-room, as I told in court.</p>

<p>“Mr. Eric came in without so much as a knock,
he being free of the house. He seemed to be very
excited, and he says ‘I must see Sir James.’ I
says, ‘He does not want to be disturbed.’ Then
he says ‘I’ll just knock at his door and ask
him.’ ”</p>

<p>“One moment, Mrs. Simmons. Was this after
Sir James had sent the letter?”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, sir, after he had come in.”</p>

<p>“You are quite sure of that?”</p>

<p>“Quite sure.”</p>

<p>“Go on.”</p>

<p>“Mr. Eric knocked at the door, but there was
no answer. Then he knocks again, but there
wasn’t a sound. So he writes something on a
card, and slips it under the door, and says, ‘Sir
James, do you mind reading the card,’ and he
waits.</p>

<p>“There was a noise inside, as though someone
was a moving very slowly, and a voice said, ‘go
away.’ ”</p>

<p>Collins drew in a quick breath. “You are quite
certain about that?”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, sir, I was standing by the door. I
was afraid he would come out, and there would
be blows.”</p>

<p>“Why?”</p>

<p>“Because, sir, Mr. Eric and Sir James had had
a terrible set-to the night before.”</p>

<p>“Do you mean they came to blows?”</p>

<p>“Oh, no, sir, I meant a figure of speech. Only
words.”</p>

<p>“What about?”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, it isn’t my business, but I think it
was over Miss Mabel.”</p>

<p>“Go on,” said Collins.</p>

<p>“Then Mr. Eric says, ‘Won’t you see me for a
minute?’ ”</p>

<p>“Was there any answer?”</p>

<p>“Only a horrible sort of groan, so I says to
him, ‘you’d better get out of this, quick. The
master’s got a loaded revolver in there.’ I don’t
know what made me say that, but I wanted to
get rid of him.”</p>

<p>“What did he say?”</p>

<p>“He says, ‘so have I, if it comes to that.’ But
he turned and went out without another word.
Oh, sir, I hope I haven’t done wrong in telling
you.”</p>

<p>“Don’t get excited, you have done quite right,
but you must not tell anyone else, mind that.”</p>

<p>“I will, sir, and I am sure that he had nothing
to do with it, sir. That’s why I said nothing
about it.”</p>

<p>“Now, one more question, and I have done.
Think carefully before you answer. Was it Sir
James who answered from the room?”</p>

<p>All the colour fled from her face, and she
seemed on the verge of a collapse.</p>

<p>“Oh, sir, I don’t know. I have thought of
nothing else since this terrible affair. I don’t
believe it was. It was like him, but muffled and
sort of mumbling.” She was shivering now, and
on the verge of breaking down. Collins drew a
flask from his pocket and took out the stopper.</p>

<p>“Drink this. It will do you good. I have
finished now.”</p>

<p>“Thank you, sir,” she said, taking a deep drink.</p>

<p>“And you won’t tell anyone. You must keep
absolutely silent. I shall not tell unless I find it
necessary. Now, mind, not a word. You will do
infinite harm if you do.”</p>

<p>The effect of the strong drink had made her
maudlin, and she sank weeping on a chair.</p>

<p>“Oh, what would Miss Mabel say?” she said
between her sobs.</p>

<p>Collins gave one look at her, and then left the
room. He had got the information he wanted.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
