<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI: An Apparition</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">An Apparition</p>
			</hgroup>

<p>The next three days passed outwardly in the
usual enjoyments of a country house-party.
They golfed and motored and played tennis.
Behind the scenes many things were happening.</p>

<p>It was obvious to anyone that Eric Sanders
and Mabel had come to an understanding, though
a definite engagement so soon after the death of
Sir James was repugnant to her.</p>

<p>On the other hand, so long as she had had to
fight a battle with her father on behalf of Eric,
she had been passionately devoted to him; but
now that all opposition had ceased at the gates
of the vault, and things had become easy, she
almost resented the air of ownership with which
Eric treated her. Woman-like she did not like
being regarded as being cheaply won. She
turned to Collins and was much in his company
to show her lover that he had not a monopoly of
her society.</p>

<p>Here was ground ready for sowing. He had
gone through life with a cynical view of women,
partly because he had come in contact with the
sordid side of human nature, and partly because
he had led a lonely life.</p>

<p>From the first moment that he had seen
Mabel his interest had been aroused, and that
interest was growing to something more
intimate. She either did not or would not see,
and the situation was soon acute. She was
attracted to him by the very distaste for his
profession, for she had inherited much of her father’s
contradiction in character.</p>

<p>His invitation had been indefinite, and with
all the party he was very popular. He carefully
refrained from referring to the subject of the
murder, and tried to lead the conversation away
from it. And so the age-long battle began.</p>

<p>An excursion had been arranged to the
Cheddar Gorge and Caves, and as they passed down
that wonderful panorama of riven rocks,
unsurpassed in England, the grandeur of the scene
drew them together. Each had a vein of savagery
in their natures to which the wild aspect of the
scenery appealed. Collins was driving the car,
and Mabel had taken her place with him.</p>

<p>“Stop a moment here,” she whispered. “This
is wonderful.”</p>

<p>Eric was sitting morosely in the back.</p>

<p>Far up, the trees growing on the edge of the
precipice looked like the toy trees of a Japanese
garden, and the fantastic rocks formed castles
of fairy legend. The twisted road curved steeply
down into the depths.</p>

<p>“I would like to come here by moonlight,”
she said. “It would be wonderful.”</p>

<p>“Why not have a picnic here, then?” he
answered. “It is quite warm still.”</p>

<p>“We will,” she said gaily. “Come on, or the
others will get restive. My aunt sees nothing in
these rocks⁠—in fact, she is rather frightened.”
They descended to the caves no less wonderful.</p>

<p>There were no tourists at that time so they
made a party by themselves and went in with
a guide.</p>

<p>Far in the depths of “Solomon’s Temple” with
its amazing stalactites lit by electric light, they
saw the entrance of a dark cave.</p>

<p>The guide was speaking: “That cave has been
explored for over two miles, but is not open to
the public. We do not know where it ends.
There must be exits somewhere, or the air would
not keep so fresh.”</p>

<p>“What a place for a criminal to hide from
justice,” said Collins. “If one of our friends
could make his way from Dartmoor here, he
might stay for months with an accomplice to
bring him food.”</p>

<p>“Only in the summer,” said the guide; “the
caves are flooded in the winter.”</p>

<p>Mabel shivered.</p>

<p>“How cold and damp it would be,” she said,
“and fancy a storm coming on and the water
dashing down on one from above.”</p>

<p>“Really, Mabel,” said Sanders, “you are
getting very morbid, let’s get out and have some
lunch.”</p>

<p>She turned on him.</p>

<p>“How unromantic you are. I would like to
buy this place, and turn it into a sort of Monte
Christo’s cave.”</p>

<p>“And get chronic rheumatism,” said Allery,
laughing.</p>

<p>“Well, I must give way to the craving for
lunch,” she said, and led the way out.</p>

<p>When they had got back in the afternoon,
Mabel’s old nurse met them with a startling
announcement. Old John, the butler, had seen
a ghost, and was prostrated with terror.</p>

<p>“Nonsense,” said Collins, “ghosts don’t come
in the day time, it’s against all the rules of the
game. Let’s have him up and question him.”</p>

<p>Mabel did not take it quite so lightly. “Poor
old man,” she said, “he has been brooding on my
father’s death, and I expect he has imagined
things.”</p>

<p>“Better ask for the cellar key,” said Sanders.</p>

<p>Mabel turned on him, angrily. “That’s a mean
thing to say. John has been with us now for
twenty-five years and I have never known him
the worse for drink.”</p>

<p>Sanders hastily apologised.</p>

<p>Allery intervened. “Perhaps I had better see
him, and talk to him.”</p>

<p>“If I may suggest it,” said Collins, “why not
just send for him in the ordinary way, and let
him tell his story? These old family servants
are entitled to being treated to respect.”</p>

<p>Mabel gave him a grateful look. Without
waiting for an answer, Collins rang the bell.
It was answered by John himself.</p>

<p>He was looking white and scared, but made no
remark.</p>

<p>After giving some trivial order, Mabel said
in a casual way:</p>

<p>“I hear you have had an unpleasant experience,
John. Would you care to tell us about it?”</p>

<p>The old man was dying to do so, and plunged
into his story at once.</p>

<p>“Thank you, Miss Mabel, it has upset me
somewhat, but I am sorry I mentioned it. While
you were away I had occasion to go into the
dining-room to fetch some silver. When I opened
the door there was Sir James standing on the
hearth-rug as plain as life.”</p>

<p>“How was he dressed?” said Collins, quickly.</p>

<p>“He was in court dress, with a sword on, and
he was holding his hat in his hand.”</p>

<p>Sanders burst out laughing.</p>

<p>“Exactly, and I suppose the picture frame was
empty,” he looked round in surprise. No one
else had laughed.</p>

<p>“I was too frightened to look, sir,” he said.</p>

<p>“What happened then?” said Collins in a
soothing tone.</p>

<p>“I don’t quite know, sir, I think I must have
turned faint. I believe he turned and looked at
me, and when I looked again he was gone.”</p>

<p>“But why were you so frightened?” said
Collins.</p>

<p>“It was a warning, sir, I am sure of that. He
came to tell me my time is up. Well, I suppose
we all have to go sometime, and I have tried to
do my duty.”</p>

<p>Collins cast a quick glance round the room.
Sanders was frankly sceptical. Mrs. Allery and
her daughter were looking scared. The Aunt was
not there. Mabel was dead white, and her eyes
nearly closed; but Collins saw one quick look
pass between her and Allery, though the face of
the old lawyer was inscrutable.</p>

<p>There was a silence in the room.</p>

<p>Collins went to the old servant with a quick
movement and took his hand.</p>

<p>“Now listen to me, John. I will tell you
exactly what happened. You have been allowing
yourself to brood over your old master’s death,
and it has got on your nerves. You were
probably thinking of him because the house was quiet,
and when you came into the dining-room, the
sun was shining right on to the portrait of Sir
James, and you imagined he was standing on the
rug. It is really quite a common thing. It’s what
we call hallucination. You must not let it worry
you. It’s not a warning or anything like that,
and you must not think any more of it.”</p>

<p>He spoke with such conviction that the old
man was greatly relieved.</p>

<p>But Collins had gone to the old man for
another reason. John was standing with his
back to a looking-glass, and Collins could see
the room. He saw two things, a look of intense
annoyance on the face of Sanders, and an
expression on Mabel’s face in which gratitude was
mixed with relief.</p>

<p>“Mr. Collins is right,” she said. “That is the
explanation. I am sure there is nothing else
in it. Now don’t worry any more about it.”</p>

<p>“Thank you, sir, thank you, Miss Mabel, it has
relieved me a lot,” and the old man went out.</p>

<p>“Well done, Collins,” said Allery, “you have
disposed of the ghost in quick time. I hope the
old fellow will forget all about it.”</p>

<p>Collins laughed and helped himself to a
cigarette from a silver box, but he watched the other.
Allery drew a handkerchief from his pocket, and
furtively wiped his forehead.</p>

<p>The company drifted off to various interests.
Sanders and Mabel found themselves alone for
a moment.</p>

<p>“I think I will go to Town to-morrow, if you
don’t mind,” he said.</p>

<p>“Why should you go?” she said.</p>

<p>“Well, I seem to be always putting my foot
into it somehow, and I don’t think I am wanted
here,” he added petulantly.</p>

<p>She stiffened. “You must please yourself. I
hope you don’t find it very boring here?”</p>

<p>“You know I don’t, Mabel, but you seem to
have changed towards me. You are always
trying to snub me in front of Collins, and you treat
me almost as a stranger. Why can’t we announce
our engagement, and then we should know where
we stand?”</p>

<p>She flushed. “Really, Eric, you sometimes
behave like a spoilt child. You know my
reasons. It is too soon after my father’s death,
especially as he disapproved, and I would like to
wait till my brother comes back.”</p>

<p>“But he may be dead, and we may have to wait
for years. He has been advertised enough for,
and if a man will not come to take up a title and
position, there must be something wrong.”</p>

<p>“What do you mean?” she said, angrily.</p>

<p>“Oh, I don’t mean anything dishonourable, but
something to prevent him coming. He may be
out of touch of civilisation,” he said, lamely.</p>

<p>“Very well,” she said, “then I will go further.
I will not become engaged until my brother
comes back. I am certain he is not dead.”</p>

<p>“That means, I suppose, you have ceased to
care for me?”</p>

<p>“It means nothing of the sort and you know
it. If I did not care for you, should I have stuck
to you against my father’s wishes?”</p>

<p>“Why don’t you say that you will marry the
man who finds your brother?” he said, bitterly.</p>

<p>“Eric, you go too far,” and she threw up her
head.</p>

<p>“I go too far! Well, Mabel, since you have
said that, I will tell you I think it is you to whom
that would apply. You are ‘carrying on’⁠—there
is no other phrase for it, vulgar as it is⁠—with
that fellow Collins. You are always with him,
and I can see by the way he looks at you that he
is getting too fond of you. You have only known
him for a short time.”</p>

<p>“That’s enough,” she interrupted. “You had
better say no more or we shall come to a real
quarrel. I think you better go as you have
suggested, and you can think things over. I am
going to see how my aunt is,” and she went out
without another word.</p>

<p>“Curse the fellow,” said Sanders. “What does
he mean by foisting himself here, and staying on.
He’s trying to cut me out with his damnable
polite manners. And she’s everything in the
world to me.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
