<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter XVII. <br/> The Wrong Letter</h2>

<p>In the stillness of the night the sound of a car
was heard. Sinclair went to the door and
waited.</p>

<p>Out of the blackness the car emerged, and
came to rest at the door. From the inside issued
Sanders. His face was set and grim. Without
a word he walked into the house, and into the
dining-room. Allery was sitting where he had
sat immovable all the evening. Sanders took off
his great coat, and took out his revolver and
tossed it on the table.</p>

<p>“Let me have a drink,” he said. “I’m done
up.”</p>

<p>“Tell us all about it,” said Sinclair, pouring
out a drink and handing it to him.</p>

<p>“Where’s Mabel?” said Sanders to Allery.</p>

<p>“She went to lie down, but said she wanted to
be called directly there was any news. I sent
for her when I heard the car.”</p>

<p>Mabel came in looking woefully drawn and
pale. She was in <i lang="fr">négligé</i> costume.</p>

<p>“Well?” she said in a dull voice.</p>

<p>“It’s all over. I chased the car, but we had no
chance of catching it. By a sheer fluke at the
little village of Paxton, we saw men standing
about which seemed strange at this hour, and
happened to ask whether anything had happened.
It appeared that a car had smashed up at the
bend. A bad smash.”</p>

<p>“And Mr. Collins?” said the girl.</p>

<p>“I should have thought your first thought
would have been for your brother,” said Sanders.</p>

<p>“Let’s have the news,” said Allery, crossly.</p>

<p>“I am thankful to say that Watson is safe and
hardly injured at all. I saw him, and he is
coming on as soon as he has made his statement to
the Police. Your Inspector came along, and he
is bringing Watson back.”</p>

<p>“And the other,” said Allery, almost in a
whisper.</p>

<p>“Dead!” said Sanders solemnly.</p>

<p>The silence was broken by a woman’s sobs.
Mabel had thrown herself down on the sofa, and
was weeping bitterly. Sanders was going to her,
but Allery motioned him back. “Let her alone,”
he said. “She has had an awful time of it.”</p>

<p>“You will be better in bed,” he said gently to
her. “Let me fetch your old nurse.”</p>

<p>The faithful old servant had been hovering
about all the evening. She came in and put her
arm about the weeping girl, and led her from
the room.</p>

<p>“Here he is,” said Allery, jumping to his feet,
as the sound of a car was heard. Watson and
the Inspector came in, the former looking very
white and shaken.</p>

<p>“A bad smash, sir,” said the Inspector to
Sinclair, “they must have been going at a cracking
pace. I have a full statement from witnesses.”</p>

<p>“Thank you, Miles,” said Sinclair, handing
him a drink. “I will send for you to-morrow,
and there will be a report to draw up. The
matter is more serious than you know. At present
a discreet silence is best, you understand.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir,” said the other, almost giving
a wink, and withdrew. There was an awkward
silence in the room.</p>

<p>“Whatever is the meaning of the whole
business,” said Watson. “I am all in the dark.”</p>

<p>“Did Collins tell you nothing on the way?”
said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“No, he came and said that it was absolutely
necessary for us to get to London at once. He
said the honour of my father’s name was
involved, and that the matter must be kept secret,
especially from the police. He hinted that there
was some secret connected with my father’s past
life. He was so insistent that I went blindly
with him.”</p>

<p>“You have had a lucky escape,” said Sinclair.
“Collins, in my view, was the murderer of your
father.”</p>

<p>“What!” said Watson, starting forward in his
seat.</p>

<p>“The others here are sceptical, they cannot
believe it. It all hangs on a document which
your father said he had hidden. He wrote and
told me.” He took the letter from his pocket,
and handed it to Watson, who read it with a
puzzled air.</p>

<p>“But I don’t understand. He says he hid it
where he once put his will in my presence.”</p>

<p>“Exactly.”</p>

<p>“Then why did Collins want to go to London?”</p>

<p>“To get it, I suppose,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>“But it’s not there at all; it’s here,” said
Watson.</p>

<p>In breathless silence he rose and walked to the
fireplace. Reaching up, he turned the portrait
of Sir James from the wall. Behind was the oak
panelling. Sliding a panel back he put his hand
and drew out some papers, and brought them to
the light.</p>

<p>One was a dusty envelope, tied and sealed.
The other was new.</p>

<p>Picking up the first, Watson said with some
emotion:</p>

<p>“When we had our last interview in this room,
before I went to South America, my father told
me he had made a will cutting me completely
out, and had left this with Mr. Allery. Isn’t
that so?”</p>

<p>“That is quite correct,” said Allery. “I tried
to persuade him not to do so, in spite of the
opinion I then had of you, but he would not
make any change.”</p>

<p>“Well, he told me here, he had made another
dated after that. He said, ‘I am going to hide it
here. No one knows of the existence of this place,
and I am placing you on your honour. If you
come back having redeemed your character, and
with a clear conscience, I will bring out this will,
if I am alive. If I am dead you can produce it,
if you think you have made good.’ He was a
strange man and had curious ideas, but he was
absolutely just.”</p>

<p>“That accounts for the Will he made some
little time ago, bringing you back,” said Allery.
“I see it all now.”</p>

<p>“But the other document?” said Sinclair
impatiently. “Of course we supposed it was in the
London house. I thought he would have it with
him, and so did Collins, evidently.”</p>

<p>Watson picked up the envelope, and broke the
seal.</p>

<p>Within was a roll of paper, which he unfolded,
and laid on the table.</p>

<p>The feeling in the room was intense.</p>

<p>The light shone full on the writing, and the
men leant forward to scan the words. It seemed
almost as though the dead man was with them
speaking from the tomb his awful accusation.</p>

<p>Watson read in a firm voice.</p>

<p>“To my son.”</p>

<blockquote class="letter"><div>

 <p class="salutation">“My dearest boy,</p>

 <p>“If you ever read this I will have passed
 for ever from your sight. I have longed for you
 for years, and have bitterly repented the hasty
 action which drove you from my side, though at the
 time I thought I was acting for your ultimate
 good. I pray to God that you may be still alive,
 and may return to take your place here.</p>

 <p>“I can write no more as to this as the time is
 short. A great menace hangs over me, and I feel
 that my life may be taken at any time. I will
 be brief.</p>

 <p>“In my capacity of Home Secretary it was
 necessary for me to be acquainted with the most
 dreadful secrets of crime, and criminals.</p>

 <p>“Among the most baffling problems of modern
 times has been the personality of a master
 criminal, a blackmailer, forger and rogue, whose
 diabolical cunning had eluded the police completely.
 Even his name and residence were entirely
 unknown, though he had gone under several aliases
 for blackmailing purposes. He seemed to know
 every shady secret in Society.”</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>“Webb or Atkins,” said Sinclair excitedly.
“The man we have been trying to find for years.”</p>

<p>“Go on,” said Allery.</p>

<blockquote class="letter"><div>

 <p>“Some few days ago I received a letter from
 Sylvester Collins, the Investigator, who was
 actually trying to find this criminal. Several of the
 highest in the land had been asking me to locate
 this man, as their lives were being made a misery
 by him. Collins promised to send a report on
 the matter. When I opened the letter he sent
 me, the whole world seemed to go round, and for
 minutes I could not collect my thoughts. Instead
 of the letter I had expected, there was a
 typewritten document to the Duke of ⸻ demanding
 instant payment of a very large sum, and in the
 case of refusal a threat that incriminating
 documents of the worst character would be sent to
 the Duchess.</p>

 <p>“It was on perfectly plain paper, with no
 address, but giving careful instructions as to how the
 money was to be paid in Paris.</p>

 <p>“Even then I did not grasp the full meaning of
 what I read. The note had come by hand, straight
 from Collins but within a few moments I received
 a letter by hand from the Duke, containing the
 note I was expecting from Collins, which, he
 said, had evidently been sent to him in error.
 There could be only one explanation, however
 improbable it appeared. The two letters had
 come from the same person.</p>

 <p>“I went at once to the Duke, and in strict
 confidence told him of what had happened. He told
 me the whole dreadful story.</p>

 <p>“This man Webb⁠—Julian Webb⁠—had been
 draining him like a cask.</p>

 <p>“Of course, I could have called in the police,
 but such terrible issues were at stake, and the
 scandal would have been so profound, that I chose
 the other course.</p>

 <p>“I knew the risk and counted the cost. I sent
 for Collins, and faced him with the letter, and the
 situation. He tried to bluff, and of course denied
 the whole thing. I told him quite plainly that if
 I put the matter into the hands of the police, as
 it was my duty to do, it would mean disgrace
 and a long term of penal servitude for him; but
 that I was willing to save a scandal, to let him
 leave the country after he had handed over the
 incriminating documents. I informed him that
 when he had gone I should place the whole thing
 in the hands of Scotland Yard. He asked me for
 a week to consider the matter, and make his
 arrangements.</p>

 <p>“He is coming to see me to-morrow in Town,
 and has agreed to bring the documents with him.</p>

 <p>“I feel that, to such a man, the disgrace and
 flight will not appeal, and my life is now in grave
 danger. I have promised, perhaps somewhat
 rashly, not to reveal anything till I have seen
 him, so I can take no steps, but I am writing this
 and hiding it where you only will know, and if
 you come back, you will know what has happened
 to your father.</p>

 <p>“If all is well, I shall myself destroy this when
 this danger is past.</p>

 <p>“I can write no more. If you should ever read
 this you will know how to act.</p>

 <p>“Good-bye my boy, and think kindly of your
 father, who treated you harshly, but has always
 loved you.</p>

 <p>“Look after Mabel. If I am dead it is my wish
 that she marry Eric, who is a good boy. I have
 been very selfish in this matter.</p>

 <p class="endsignature">James Watson.”</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>Well, here it was at last.</p>

<p>Every one of the listeners remained lost in
his own thoughts.</p>

<p>Ronald buried his face in his hands.</p>

<p>Allery broke the silence. Leaning across to
Sinclair, he took his hand, and said, “I apologise.
You were right and we were wrong, but who
would have suspected it?”</p>

<p>“Please don’t apologise, Mr. Allery,” said
Sinclair. “It was a terrible shock to me, and as I
told you, it was only last evening that I could
make up my mind.</p>

<p>“I think everything is clear now. Collins had
no intention of going abroad. He got round Sir
James to give him that week to mature his plans
for as cunning and clever a murder as was ever
planned.</p>

<p>“The visit in the afternoon, with all its
precautions, was absolutely necessary, so that he
could drug him, though how he managed to get
him to take a whiskey and soda I cannot think.
Probably he promised to agree with everything,
otherwise Sir James would have immediately
sent to Scotland Yard. Sir James’ promise then
held good, and Collins would say he would bring
all the necessary documents. After he had gone,
some misgiving must have come to Sir James.
Perhaps he was feeling drowsy, and suspicion
of evil was growing in his mind.</p>

<p>“Anyway he wrote that letter, which did not
break his promise, as you see.”</p>

<p>“There is a possibility, which is like the man’s
daring,” said Allery.</p>

<p>“Collins may have gambled on Sir James
taking a whiskey after he had gone. There are
tasteless sleeping drugs which could have been
put in the glass. You remember the room was
in partial darkness.”</p>

<p>“I will go and break it to Mabel. She must
know the truth. It is better that I should tell
her,” and he glanced at Sanders.</p>

<p>Without another word he went out.</p>

<p>“What are you going to do about the whole
thing?” said Ronald, turning to Sinclair.</p>

<p>“I shall have to lay the matter before Boyce,
and of course Jackson must be exonerated, but
I hope that nothing will be done. It would rake
up the whole scandal which Sir James gave his
life to hide, and the man is beyond the reach of
the Law. I see no point in a sensational
disclosure.”</p>

<p>“I am glad,” said Watson. “I would rather
have it so.”</p>

<p>Mabel came into the room with Allery. She
held her head proudly, and was dry-eyed, though
very white. She walked straight to Sanders.</p>

<p>“Eric,” she said. “I have had a terrible lesson,
and I do not suppose I shall ever forget it. I
have misjudged you, and you were right in your
opinion. If you wish our engagement to be
announced, I am willing. And please forgive me
for my temporary madness. I give you my word
it was nothing more. I can never forgive
myself.”</p>

<p>Allery exchanged glances with the others, who
quietly rose, and slipped from the room.</p>

<p class="finis">The End</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
