<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter XVI. <br/> The Criminal Found</h2>

<p>“He’s a long time getting that whiskey,”
said Allery.</p>

<p>“I expect he’s having a talk with John and
my brother,” said Mabel. Sinclair sprang
forward in his chair.</p>

<p>“Good God,” he shouted, and without waiting
for leave, he rang the bell, keeping his hand on
the button in his excitement.</p>

<p>A maid answered the door.</p>

<p>“Where is Mr. Collins?” said he at once.</p>

<p>The maid looked her surprise. She was not
used to being spoken to like that.</p>

<p>“Mr. Collins and Sir Ronald have gone out for
a run in his car, sir,” she replied stiffly. “Sir
Ronald left a message that they might not be
back for some time.”</p>

<p>“Why didn’t you come and tell us, Mary?”
said Mabel quietly. She also resented Sinclair’s
interference.</p>

<p>“He said it would do later on as you were
busy, Miss,” and she looked surprised.</p>

<p>Allery was quick to notice it, and said:—</p>

<p>“All right, Mary, thank you. That’s quite all
right.”</p>

<p>The maid went out. Sinclair’s face was ashy.
He buried his face in his hands.</p>

<p>“What’s the matter, man?” said Allery
sternly.</p>

<p>“Matter, he’s gone to his death,” said Sinclair.</p>

<p>For a moment there was a silence tense and
vital. It seemed as though the horror of these
weeks had come into the room in a living form.
Powers of evil gathered round.</p>

<p>The shadows deepened at the word. There
was utter and crushing conviction in the tones.</p>

<p>Mabel was the first to grasp the meaning, and
a flush mounted to her face. “Do you suggest
that my brother, after all you have heard, is a
murderer?” she said in a passionate voice.</p>

<p>“No, not for a moment,” said Sinclair, “but
before the morning comes he will be murdered,
as his father was murdered, and by the same
hand.”</p>

<p>“You mean?” said Allery, leaning forward.</p>

<p>“Exactly. Collins, the cleverest scoundrel we
have had for a generation.”</p>

<p>“Mr. Collins,” said Mabel, and there was pain
in the voice. “I will never believe that. You
must be mad.”</p>

<p>Allery rose with a grim look on his face.
“You have said too little or too much. We must
know what you mean.”</p>

<p>The temporary numbness passed from Sinclair
and he was the man of action.</p>

<p>“Yes, yes, of course, everything, but not now.
We must act at once. You must trust to my
word. I shall want all your help. First, have
you a car, and a driver?”</p>

<p>His energy infected the others.</p>

<p>“There’s our car,” said Mabel.</p>

<p>“Then get it ready at once,” said Sinclair
abruptly. “Ask questions afterwards.” Sanders,
who had not said a word after his last rebuff,
sprang to his feet. “I’ll go and see to it.”</p>

<p>“Good. Can you drive? No, the chauffeur
must do that. I will go, no, no, that won’t do,
I must telephone.”</p>

<p>“I’ll go,” said Sanders quietly. “If you’ll tell
me where to go.”</p>

<p>Sinclair looked doubtful. “It’s dangerous
your dealing with a man who will stick at
nothing. Have you a revolver?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Sanders blushing at the
recollection which it conjured up, of the night he had
unworthy suspicions of Mabel.</p>

<p>“Can you shoot? You are dealing with a crack
shot.”</p>

<p>“I’m pretty useful,” said the other.</p>

<p>“Then go.” Sanders went without a word.</p>

<p>“The telephone, in the hall isn’t it?” he rushed
out and seized the instrument. “Hullo, Trunks.
Scotland Yard priority call. Superintendent
Sinclair,” he said, and hung up the receiver.</p>

<p>Sanders came in breathless. “We can’t get the
car to start,” he said.</p>

<p>“Ah, I feared as much, he’s tampered with it,”
said Sinclair.</p>

<p>He seized the telephone, “Hullo that call
coming through?⸺”</p>

<p>“All right; give me the police station at
Wilton in the meantime—urgent.”</p>

<p>He waited a moment with the receiver in his
hand. “Hullo, Superintendent Sinclair here.
That you, Miles?—good. Get the best car at
once, and come here with two men. Armed, you
understand. I take full responsibility. Must
ring off, I’m waiting for the Yard.”</p>

<p>The bell tinkled, and he got through.</p>

<p>He issued rapid orders.</p>

<p>When he put up the receiver, he turned to the
others.</p>

<p>“There’s one point in our favour. He doesn’t
know he’s suspected. He has always regarded
everyone as a fool. But he’s a clever rogue if
ever there was one, and he’ll take some catching.”</p>

<p>“But my brother,” said Mabel, “you said he
was in danger.”</p>

<p>“I am so sorry, Miss Watson. I was so upset
for the moment. There is no immediate danger.
In fact, his one chance lies with keeping your
brother safe, for the moment, but his life is in
danger. I am bound to tell you that I have given
orders for the house in Leveson Square to be
watched, but it may not be there.”</p>

<p>“What may not be there?” said Allery; “we
are all in the dark.”</p>

<p>“I know. I will explain, but there’s no time
now.</p>

<p>“As far as I know he’s gone to London and
he will not spare the car. He may not go direct
in case of some such action as I have taken.”</p>

<p>Sanders came in.</p>

<p>“The car will go now,” he said. “Luckily the
chauffeur had spare parts, otherwise it would
have been hopeless, and there was evidently not
much time to tamper with it. I’ll get off, if you
tell me where to go.”</p>

<p>“Oh, don’t go,” said Mabel with a revulsion of
feeling. “Surely the police can do all that’s
necessary?”</p>

<p>“I’m going,” said Sanders, and his jaw set
square. There was a long account to settle with
this man.</p>

<p>“Go direct to London, as hard as you can.
Don’t stop to ask questions on the way. Go to
Leveson Square; here, take my card with you,
and explain to the men on duty there. If you
don’t catch them on the road, and I’m afraid you
have a poor chance, he will have got there first.
They have full instructions to act, but you must
get hold of Watson, and see to his safety if you
can. Good luck to you. Telephone if you can.
Use my name, and they will give you priority.”</p>

<p>Without even looking at Mabel or saying
good-bye, he went out.</p>

<p>“Oh, my brother and Mr. Collins! This is
awful; surely there must be some ghastly
mistake!”</p>

<p>“You must be brave,” said Allery, “and wait
for Mr. Sinclair’s explanation.”</p>

<p>A sound was heard outside as the car shot out
into the night.</p>

<p>“Too long a start,” said Sinclair, looking at
his watch.</p>

<p>John had been hovering at the door, and now
came forward.</p>

<p>“Can I be of any service, Miss?” he said.</p>

<p>“No, thank you, John,” said she, “except you
can tell the servants to keep absolutely silent
about anything that is happening. They will
all know in time. Meanwhile I depend on their
loyalty.”</p>

<p>The old man bowed. “I am sure you may
depend on them, Miss; but can I get you
anything?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Allery, “some strong black coffee
would do us all good. I can see we are going to
have a night of it.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir,” said John.</p>

<p>The sound of a car at the door was heard.
Sinclair opened it, and a policeman in plain
clothes entered and saluted.</p>

<p>“That’s right, Miles. Our man has gone to
London, at least I think so. A car has just gone
in pursuit, and I have informed the Yard. The
whole route will be watched and patrolled. They
are also watching the house in Leveson Square.
He has taken Sir Ronald Watson with him.”</p>

<p>The Inspector opened his eyes wide.</p>

<p>“Yes,” said Sinclair, “we have found Sir
Ronald Watson only to-day.”</p>

<p>He issued further instructions, with a
description of the car, and its occupants. He gave them
the number, “but,” he said, “he’s altered that, if
I know him.”</p>

<p>“Very good, sir,” said the Inspector, “we’ll
catch him,” he added cheerfully. It was not
often such a chance came in his way, and visions
of promotion floated before him.</p>

<p>When he had sent them off, Sinclair came back
to the others.</p>

<p>“Shall we come into the dining-room?” he said.
“I must remain here where I can be found,
though I would have dearly loved the chase,”
he added sadly. “I don’t expect in the least they
will catch him. But I must try everything.”</p>

<p>He sank wearily into a seat. “What a day,”
he said.</p>

<p>The others waited.</p>

<p>Presently he sat up.</p>

<p>“Of course you will want an explanation, and
you are entitled to one. It will help pass the
time.”</p>

<p>“If you are too tired we can wait,” said Mabel,
but she was on the rack. Her brother, the man
who had been her lover, and he who had lately
filled so much of her life and whom she had
grown to respect even if there was no deeper
feeling, were all involved.</p>

<p>Sinclair started like a tired man, but as he
went on he warmed to his tale.</p>

<p>“Collins was a deep scoundrel, but like all such
he had two weaknesses. He was so vain that he
could not leave things alone, he must try daring
experiments, and he regarded all mankind as
fools. That was where he made his great
mistake. I don’t expect we shall ever know the
truth, for I am certain he will never be taken
alive.</p>

<p>“A great amount is still obscure, in fact, it
was only this evening that I was sure I was
right. Otherwise, of course, I should have acted
before. The first indication I had was a very
slight slip, so slight that it was almost instinct
that made me notice it. He was recounting Mrs.
Simmons’ evidence to Boyce and myself, and he
said that she had stated that Sir James had
complained of feeling sleepy. Now I was sure that
she had said nothing of the sort, and I took the
trouble to ask her after, and she was certain he
had never said so. In a curious way this kept on
recurring to my mind, but I dismissed it. Mind
you, I hadn’t the remotest suspicion at the time.
I merely thought it curious.</p>

<p>“Then, of course, I had a letter from Sir James
the day after the murder.”</p>

<p>The other two looked at him in surprise.</p>

<p>“Oh, of course, you don’t know about that.”
He felt in his pocket and produced the letter,
which he read to them.</p>

<p>“Again I was struck with the fact that he had
been anxious not to have Collins told. It stuck
in my mind, until recalled, in a vivid manner.
I was in his flat, and we were discussing the
evidence of Mrs. Simmons, when he suddenly said
he heard a noise, and went to the door,
dramatically taking his pistol with him.</p>

<p>“Now, my hearing is very good, and I was
almost certain that there was no one there.
Outside the door he found a piece of paper with a
scribbled message on it. You know what that
was because it has been in the papers. We
searched the flat, but there was no one there.
When we came back he picked up the evidence
from the floor, and was reading it. He handed
it back to me, and I saw that the letter from
Sir James was with the other document. I could
see then that he had got hold of this by a clever
ruse, but I did not think it was anything more
than a trick, though I did not like it.</p>

<p>“That night I stayed at his flat, and had very
little sleep.</p>

<p>“I went over the scene at Leveson Square as I
had done many times, and then I recalled that
Collins had asked me to telephone for a doctor,
and remained at the door while I called the old
woman. When I came back he had spread mats
on the floor in order not to obscure footmarks.
He examined the floor himself, and said there
were three sets of footmarks, Sir James’ and the
unknown man’s, and then he said with a laugh,
‘and these, I think, are mine when I stepped to
lay the rug,’ and he took off his shoes, and they
fitted.</p>

<p>“I was so astounded that I had to help myself
to a whiskey and soda, in order not to show my
feelings, for the marks he found were under
where the rug had been. Since he had spread it
from the doorway, it must have been over the
marks. It may seem surprising, but in the
events which followed, this had entirely gone out
of my mind, but now came back with added
force. It is always said in my profession that
we must never eliminate any possibility,
however seemingly improbable.</p>

<p>“More or less for idle speculation, I began to
think, as I could not sleep. Facts came
crowding in. Mrs. Simmons had suppressed the fact
that Sanders had come in the afternoon, that I
did not know at the time, but I was sure that
she would not hide a murderer. If that were so,
then, as we found there was no possible means
of leaving the room, and she had seen him go to
his study and lock the door, the murder could
not have taken place then. What remained? It
must have taken place after the door was opened
by us. But the only person who was for a
moment alone with Sir James was Collins. But
the thing was absurd. We should have heard
the shot. I dismissed the whole thing from my
mind. But it would keep coming back. Collins
had turned up at my office at the very moment,
with a plausible story of having been called up
on the ’phone. He would, of course, have been
able to get official paper, and knew my signature
perfectly well. Motive—well, I have been too
long in the service to look for motive till I have
a case.</p>

<p>“The next day we went to Leveson Square, and
the Home Office doctor mentioned that the bullet
had only penetrated a little way into the skull.</p>

<p>“Forgive me for going into all this,” he said
to Mabel.</p>

<p>“Go on,” she said, bravely. “I must know the
truth.”</p>

<p>“I was on the alert, then, and I noticed that
Collins started talking about his grievance
against Boyce for letting the Press have details.
As a rule, he would have picked up a point like
that at once. The doctor had suggested a half
charge as the explanation, but another came to
my mind. An air pistol would make
comparatively little noise, especially if one shouted out
something at the same time. The whole
appearance of Sir James was as though he was in a
deep sleep. Here, again, my experience came in.
I had known a similar case in India.</p>

<p>“The man who did the murder would have to
be certain that he was asleep, or the plot would
fail. There was only one way. Drugging!
You might say why not poison, but here was no
need, and always the risk of poison being found.
A sleeping draught was all that was necessary,
and then I remembered that Collins had slipped
out the remark about Sir James feeling sleepy.
There were two glasses which had contained
whiskey, into which a sleeping draught could
easily have been put.</p>

<p>“Things were beginning to take shape. I must
confess I had suspicions of Lewis at first, but I
soon dismissed that, and kept it up on purpose.”</p>

<p>He paused and helped himself to coffee.</p>

<p>“You must understand,” he continued, “that
I had not a shred of evidence. If I had told my
suspicions I should have been laughed at, and
probably lost my job. Then there came the
complication of Boyce and Jackson. I saw he
was dead set on getting this man proved guilty,
as he was sure we should never get the real man.”</p>

<p>“Do you mean to say he was going to get an
innocent man convicted?” said Mabel, in horror.</p>

<p>“Not convicted. He would merely be put back
in an asylum, and I can assure you it happens
far oftener than the public know, that an
innocent man has to suffer. The police argue that
they have got hold of a man with a terrible past,
and that even if he is not the actual culprit he
deserves to be put away. You will find, in these
cases where murder is the crime, he is always
sent to penal servitude for life.”</p>

<p>“How dreadful,” said Mabel, “I thought our
justice was so good in England.”</p>

<p>“I am afraid what Mr. Sinclair says is true,”
said Allery. “I have never been mixed up with
criminal cases, but I have heard a good deal.
Please go on.”</p>

<p>“I saw,” said Sinclair, “that the real clue lay
in the letter I had received, and it was
disquieting that Collins had read it according to my
supposition. The key to the situation lay in
finding Sir Ronald Watson.</p>

<p>“I kept in touch with Collins’ movements, and
soon learnt of his visits here. I thought he was
here for another reason,” and he glanced
awkwardly at Mabel, “but the mystery he made
of it, led me to think he might have a double
motive. I did not in the least suspect the truth,
but thought he was trying to find the missing
man from this end, if you understand me?”</p>

<p>Allery nodded. “That’s all quite clear,” he
said.</p>

<p>“He turned up at my office the other day. I
could see he had something in the wind. Even
with his iron nerve the delay must have been
fretting him, for there was always the possibility
that we should get the man, and then the secret,
whatever it was, would be out.</p>

<p>“I tried a bluff. I asked him where Wilton-on-Sea
was, and said I wanted to go there. All I
knew was that it was close to this place. He
would not let me go alone, for he did not know
how much I knew, and so we came down, and
watched for those wretched days which have put
years on to my life.</p>

<p>“I had to pretend to take to drink to throw
dust in his eyes.</p>

<p>“When he found Sir Ronald in such a dramatic
fashion, I realised that things had come to a
crisis. There was danger, real and personal, in
the air. With supreme bluff he introduced me,
and I must confess he took me completely by
surprise. When I saw Lewis coming, for a moment
all my ideas crumpled like a pack of cards, and
I thought I had made a colossal fool of myself;
but when I realised who it was, I saw the whole
game. He would not let him out of his sight,
nor allow me a word with him.</p>

<p>“He saw his one chance was to get the
document out of him before I had a chance.</p>

<p>“But he was one too good for me at the end.
When he slipped out I never thought he would
make a bolt for it like that.”</p>

<p>He finished his story, and looked at the others.</p>

<p>Allery was scrutinising the end of his cigar.
Mabel was deeply distressed.</p>

<p>“You’ve been working pretty hard lately, I
suppose,” said the former.</p>

<p>Sinclair started: “I am always pretty hard at
work,” he said.</p>

<p>“You’ve been letting this thing prey on your
mind, I expect, a good deal?”</p>

<p>Sinclair stiffened. “Do you mean that I have
been imagining things?” he said.</p>

<p>“It is a most entertaining exhibition of
deduction,” said Allery.</p>

<p>“Of course, I have not had time to tell you all,”
said Sinclair, “and it may never come out.”</p>

<p>“It is a wicked lie,” said Mabel. “I will never
believe it.” Her eyes were blazing.</p>

<p>“I am sorry, Miss Watson,” stammered
Sinclair.</p>

<p>“I am going to lie down, Mr. Allery,” said she,
and walked from the room ignoring Sinclair.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
