<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Preface</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="preface" epub:type="preface">
			
<h2 epub:type="title">Preface</h2>

<p>I can say with all sincerity, nay with all
solemn responsibility, that this detective
mystery deceived me. And as I have been
looking out for a long time for a detective mystery
that should be at least deceptive, whatever its
other merits or demerits in being detective, I
very willingly write a word to serve as a preface
to it, though such books ought not to need such
prefaces. The detective story is in this way a
paradox (if I may use a word that has very
painful memories for me) because the true reader and
critic not only desires to be gulled, but even
desires to be gullible. I wish when reading such a
story to become as simple as Dr. Watson; to be
in the happy, cheerful, childlike, radiant
condition of Dr. Watson and not in the much more
dark and disillusioned and satiated and sceptical
condition of Sherlock Holmes. I generally am in
that childlike condition. But in every case it is
my ardent and aspiring ambition to be stupider
than the man who wrote the story. And in the
case of this story I actually succeeded.</p>

<p>This desire to be deceived is really peculiar to
detective romance. It is in another sense that we
say the same thing of other types of romance. It
is sometimes said that when we go to the theatre
we pay to be deceived. But we are not really
deceived; we do not think that the dramatist
intends something that he does not intend; we do
not think the actor is doing something that he is
not doing. We only forget, or half forget, for a
moment, in the continuity and consistency of
certain events, the fact that they come from a
dramatist and an actor. But if we happen to
remember it, we do not remember it with surprise.
We are not astonished to discover that there is an
actor on the stage, as we are (or ought to be)
astonished to discover that there is a corpse in
the summer-house. We do not feel a momentary
incredulity when we are told that the play was
written by a playwright, as we do feel (or ought
to feel) when we are told that the crime was
committed by a curate. We watch a great actor
performing Hamlet so well that (if we have luck)
we lose for an instant the sense that he is a
great actor; we feel for the moment that he is
young Hamlet trying to avenge the death of old
Hamlet upon Claudius. But we do not, either
in forgetting or remembering, feel any shock of
fact or the change of fact. We do not feel as
we should feel if the play took a new and sudden
turn, and we found that Hamlet had killed his
own father and that his uncle was a perfectly
blameless character. That would be the
Detective Drama of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, and
now that so many peculiar experiments are being
tried with that tragedy, I respectfully suggest it
to the managers of the London Theatres.</p>

<p>If it is the first rule of the writer of mystery
stories to conceal the secret from the reader, it
is the first duty of the critic to conceal it from
the public. I will therefore put my hand upon
my mouth; and tortures shall not reveal the
precise point in this story at which a person whom
I had really regarded as figuring in one
legitimate capacity suddenly began to figure in
another, which was far from legitimate. I must not
breathe a word about what the writer of this
dramatic mystery does. I will confine myself
strictly to saying what he does not do. And
merely out of the things which he does not do, I
could construct an enthusiastic eulogy. On the
firm foundation of the things he does not do, I
could erect an eternal tower of brass. For the
things he does not do are the things being done
everywhere to-day, to the destruction of true
detective fiction and the loss of this legitimate and
delightful form of art. He does not introduce
into the story a vast but invisible secret society
with branches in every part of the world, with
ruffians who can be brought in to do anything or
underground cellars that can be used to hide
anybody. He does not mar the pure and lovely
outlines of a classical murder or burglary by
wreathing it round and round with the dirty and
dingy red tape of international diplomacy; he
does not lower our lofty ideals of crime to the
level of foreign politics. He does not introduce
suddenly at the end somebody’s brother from
New Zealand, who is exactly like him. He does
not trace the crime hurriedly in the last page or
two to some totally insignificant character, whom
we never suspected because we never
remembered. He does not get over the difficulty of
choosing between the hero and the villain by
falling back on the hero’s cabman or the villain’s
valet. He does not introduce a professional
criminal to take the blame of a private crime; a
thoroughly unsportsmanlike course of action and
another proof of how professionalism is ruining
our national sense of sport. He does not
introduce about six people in succession to do little
bits of the same small murder; one man to bring
the dagger and another to point it and another
to stick it in properly. He does not say it was
all a mistake, and that nobody ever meant to
murder anybody at all, to the serious
disappointment of all humane and sympathetic readers.
He does not make the general mistake of
thinking that the more complicated the story is the
better. His story is complicated enough, and on
many points open to criticism; but the secret of
it is found in the centre; and that is the central
matter in any work of art.</p>

<p class="endsignature">G. K. Chesterton.</p>
<p class="dateline"><i>March</i>, 1926.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
